As I see it, what came before January 25th was something completely different from what's going on now. I feel like I've forgotten what came before—like I wasn't there. I feel like the world began or the truth began as I see it on January 25th. At the same time, it was also an ending—to things that were true that I later found out were false. A lot of false images, and personalities that were really fake.
Never in my life did I focus on something called January 25th. This way or that, January 25th was a vacation for exams when I was in school. Never in my life did I notice the date.
About two weeks before January 25th, I was at our office in Tahrir. I saw probably three girls and two boys holding signs in the street. At the time, there were several people who had set themselves on fire. So there they were, talking about four people who had set themselves on fire, saying, "Hey Egyptians, what are you waiting for?" In less than five minutes, for real, there were so many Central Security officers. Yeah, like so out of the ordinary. Then, they took those boys to the side, to the building where Benha is, and they beat them. They beat the shit out of them in the foyer of the building. And I acted normally, completely normal. I was talking on the phone.
I never imagined... ever, ever, ever... that one day January 25th would happen.
In the beginning, I wasn't with the revolution. I thought it was completely unbelievable.
In my opinion, January 25th was just an invitation to an oppositional demonstration on Police Day, via an invitation that some called a revolution.
Honestly, when I got the invitation to go out on January 25th, I said to myself, "What is this idiocy?" We'll go out in the street and get picked up, get assaulted, and the night will be over. It won't be two hours before we've all either gone home or been taken to prison. That's it; that'll be it. The event said that 85,000 were attending. I thought if half of them showed up, if they really went, it would be... it would be a miracle.
January 25th, in my opinion, was a dream. For everyone—even the youth, even ordinary people, even the Muslim Brothers and the Salafis themselves—January 25th was a dream that they could ever get to be in power.
January 25th was a revolution after thirty years… not thirty… thirty-five years of living underground, behind the wall, and all that.
We used to go out in demonstrations here in Mansoura; maybe the largest number we'd reach would be fifteen people. We'd do it and get out right away. About five minutes and you'd find security coming—no, really, the repression was severe. Even the opposition: all they ever achieved in the margins of freedom was expression of opinion in the newspapers and things like that. The regime could accept that, but it couldn't accept people being in the street.
The Brotherhood tried more than once to rise up in revolutions, but they didn't succeed. They were all rounded up, put in prison, and dealt with. People don't know anything about them.
On January 25th, people went out—a lot of people went out, youth went out… All they wanted was for the country to progress and get better. People went out as a result of rage, or of poor living conditions. There was no clean water to drink, no housing, no work, no public transportation, no clean environment or even healthcare. They demanded justice, freedom, bread, and human dignity.
Everyone said that they were going out on January 25th on Police Day to get on the nerves of the police who were just fundamentally torturing people.
January 25th was the first day of the revolution. There was a whole lot of talk about that day on the internet and among my friends—that something really big would happen. But on that day, I was afraid to go out. I didn't go anywhere. I sat at the coffee shop a bit and then I went home to look at what was happening online.
I wasn't even in Egypt. At the time I was in America; I was still living there. I didn't understand what was happening. I stayed up all night to see what was happening in the morning over there. All my days were upside down.
I saw and I felt the significance of the Egyptians' problems, but not to the point... not like someone who was born here and feels it from experience. I didn't want to go out because of that. I didn't know if it was my place, I mean. So at the beginning, I didn't go out.
I saw so many people in the street. I decided to go out. I went out. I went out in front of our house, to the end of our street, to Isaaf. That was the beginning. The gas started. There's something called pellets; they just sting, they don't really hurt you. So they shot at us a bit and whatever, and then we went home. I mean, it was seven o’clock and we were pretty much finished.
The revolution wasn't just in Tahrir. There were demonstrations here in town where we live, so we participated in our neighborhood, in the demonstration that was here. January 25th didn't have a leader.
I went out and I took my wife and kids. People were shouting, "The people want the regime to fall," or "Down with the president!" I was saying, "The people want the execution of the president." I mean, I was the first one to start saying "execution." Why? Because of what I saw of Hosni Mubarak, who should have promoted the country. There should have been development and he should have brought us to a point like Malaysia, or Singapore, or Brazil... those places. What did he do for us?
I was always cursing the people in Tahrir Square and saying it's enough, the guy’s gonna finally make some concessions, and I don't know what else. Then, day-by-day, I started to feel like maybe there could be change in the country. What's the problem with seeing some change in the country? Maybe we could see some new faces in power.
After January 25th, I started to understand a bit of politics. In a sense, we were unaware. Stuff was getting to us all wrong. But one kind of comes late to it, starts discovering things that they used to be ignorant of. I want to say to you that you really loved the country a lot in that time. You felt like… it was the first time I felt that kind of belonging.
I say January 25th was a nice dream. The best thing about it was that we were all one: Muslim Brother, Salafi, 6 April, Revolutionary Socialist, leftist, liberal, Muslim, Christian. I really felt that you had an entity—something called the Egyptian people. January 25th was the door we entered toward real freedom. The January 25th Revolution was what let us speak with a strong heart to police leaders, to state leaders, and to the ministers.
God have mercy on the youth who died. They were some of the best youth. I wish that I could go back in time so I could go out and be one of those people. But I was in high school and my father put his foot down; he said I couldn't go out of the house.
January 25th was mostly an American invention.
It was the beginning of a revolution, but people don't understand revolution. People weren't... they wanted freedom, but they didn't believe in the need to sacrifice for freedom.
January 25th broke the fear barrier inside the Egyptian people. And I don't think that anything will go back... There is no return to before January 25th, because the Egyptian people tasted freedom. I don't think they will squander what happened to them.
What they call the January 25th Revolution was a stone, a kind of big stone thrown into a pool of stagnant water. It moved the water, so the odors and mold that were in the heart of that pool began to rise to the surface. We started to see the catastrophe we're in, which we couldn’t see before or deal with. What makes a difference now is how we deal with it. Will we run from it again, or will we face it?
As I see it, it was a dream, and for a lot of people, it was a dream. Everyone who dreamed of that day thought that at the end of it, their dream would be realized and the world would be beautiful. You felt that you would go out and find work, and the world would be beautiful. The future would begin with a comfortable life, Egypt would be like the best country in Europe, and all that stuff. Of course, all it came to was illusions and all it came to was memories. None of the demands were realized; none of them. They don't get realized in a year or two. Maybe in twenty years they’ll start to be realized.
Last January 25th, I was a bit late heading out. I was supposed to go to the march that was in Mohandiseen. I thought, "Ok, I'll walk the dog, smoke a cigarette, take a shower, and go out.” By that time the protest was broken up. The kids got beat; they'd shoot a Grenov in the air and that fucking shit. If it were before last January 25th, I'd have said something else to you, because I would have had hope. But I am sure that next January 25th, the one in 2015, will be a normal day. I tell you there is no revolution.
Last Shem el-Neseem, I was invited to my uncle's house. We were sitting around and stuff... Can you imagine, I swear to God, there were about ten, eleven, twelve people sitting around and everyone—every single one of them—was against me. My aunt comes and says, "Are you a terrorist, or what?" Someone else says to me, "You're going to lose yourself that way." I'm telling you, my relatives who've known me since the day I was born are suspicious of me.
January 25th did a lot for us but we wasted it. We didn't take advantage of it, with our behavior and the way we are with people—the way we deal with simple people. But we saw what happened. What happened brought us to the point that now people call it a setback and a conspiracy... A conspiracy!
January 25th was a great revolution because we were able to take the oppressive tyrant Hosni Mubarak out of power. I don't know if it was a revolution or a mix between a revolution and a conspiracy, but what was obvious is that it was a revolution but people doused it in gas so that it would burn even more. To serve their interests, of course—the interests of the deep state.
People don't deal with it. They eat, drink, and sleep. They don't have an issue. But if you talk about something else, nope. Eat a loaf of bread, drink water from the sewer, sleep on the sidewalk—the most important thing is everyday life. Nothing more than that. I mean, if you try to be like, "Instead of sleeping on the sidewalk, how about sleeping in a house?" They don't think about that sort of thing.
What did it come to? Everything we dreamed of was realized for us. Now all that has come to nothing. But we don't despair. January 25th was the one thing—the way I see it—it was the one nice thing that ever happened in our lives. I'll never forget.