STABILITY

Stability is life, marriage; a home, a project, work.
Before the revolution, most people thought that stability meant having security, no more than that. And the feeling that the police were around with their high and mighty attitude. 
People think that what we had before the revolution was stability, and that we should go back to that kind of stability.
Stability is persisting in a certain state of affairs, but it should be a state of affairs that is consistent, a state of affairs in which everything benefits. That benefits the people before the government, that benefits the government, that benefits the country itself. The country should persist in a situation or with a system that distributes justice, that is not unjust, that is not chaotic, that doesn't have any of that. Not stability in the sense that the country remains in a bad state of affairs.
I swear, you might be in a bad situation and stay in it. Obviously in the past there was stability. God knows if it was good or bad!
There's no such thing as stability in the country now, because there's no government, no security, and no system. So why should I think about stability?
There will never be stability until the people give stability to themselves. Stability will never happen until we ourselves, from inside ourselves, pull ourselves up and be respectable human beings. When we go down in the streets and I respect you as I respect my sister, when I look at you with respect, not in a trashy way because I'm scum. I go out now not wanting stability. I love chaos. No! I have to love this country in order to give it stability.
In my opinion, I'm very stable the way it is. I personally don't have troubles to the point that  I need something called stability.
There is no stability, but people think there is stability. Every so often the media says to them: "Be a bit patient for stability, for the wheel of production."
Stability is a term used by every regime to pass a constitution, to hold a referendum or elections. They say: "Go out and vote, go vote in the referendum for stability, so that the country moves forward, so that the country will be great."
The regime tricked us. They said, "Stability." And, "Stability," And, "Stability." "Stability, stability, stability."
It's the older people who want to make a living. They think that they will make a living when stability happens. They don't know that stability isn't a political word in the first place.
But stability will never be realized and will never come until the rights of the people who died and were wounded are realized; not until everyone in this country who sacrificed to achieve real stability and to make this country great gets their rights. 
