SUPPORTERS
Before the revolution, supporters were people who supported an opinion—someone who says that they support someone else's opinion. That's all I'd hear. But I did hear of the idea of opposition. I mean, there was opposition to Mubarak—the Tagammu Party and the Muslim Brotherhood came out in opposition to Mubarak. But supporters? That's new.
The first time I heard supporters was after January 25th, during the first presidential election. For example, there were supporters of Dr. Mohamed Morsi. 
The first time I heard it was when I was eight years old, in a political play by Hala Sedki that had been banned. It was called, "Bishwish." It's about state corruption and all that stuff. That play was banned and I pretty much had the only copy that was in Kuwait… I was living in Kuwait at the time. It was about the Parliament: «مؤيدون مؤيدون، منافقون منافقون» "Supporters are supporters; hypocrites are hypocrites."
Like, after the revolution that whole thing increased so much 'cause we were divided; so everyone has an idea and uses it for a lot of people, "Actually, they support so-and-so, and they support so-and-so's thinking, and they support this-and-that party."
In my opinion: supporters = honorable citizens = the people who protect institutions from destroyers.
Supporters are those who support everything that happens. Let's be clear. There were people who supported Mubarak, and as soon as the revolution rose up and succeeded, they said. "We are with the revolution." As soon as Tantawi started assaulting people, as soon as he sent his soldiers out… they were going into mosques with their boots… they said, "Yeah that's… this is a state of war."
The same with Morsi's regime. They supported Morsi's regime. And El-Sisi; they support El-Sisi.
For instance, Dr. Mohamed Morsi's supporters. A supporter is someone who lives in a village or a city, who doesn't know Mohamed Morsi. So what's their reasoning? They say, "I don't know." — "I'm still finding out." Why, is he a relative or do they completely know him? Do they completely support him? Supporters are blind; they support to the last drop of blood, and that's wrong.
For me, supporters are just like the media, in that they say, "I'll support anything you say, whether it's right or wrong; what's important is that you say it. I'll support you. God help you and I'm with you." The ones who totally deceive themselves.
Usually supporters don't want to say why; they're always controlled by the media. They all go out with the same opinion—it's unusual for them to have any differences. You can't be in a protest and be a supporter like me, but be different in something. No, you must be exactly like me. Every one of them goes out, and every one of them is the same.
For anything in Egypt that comes from, like, the government or something like that, there are more supporters than opposers. So there's something I keep in mind: that I should be worried whenever there are a lot of people. If you are with the supporters—who are a lot of people—you know you're headed in the wrong direction… not necessarily in the wrong direction, but something is wrong.
Unfortunately, they are always the reason for problems—the reason for a lot of problems that happen. Supporters should stay home. If you're in support, that's it. When you go out and protest… of course, it's also unfortunate that in Egypt the government supports the supporters, or the police support them, and the security at the protests supports them. They go out and assault the opposition, so clashes happen.
I don't support anything to the last drop of blood. When it comes to, say, presidential elections, I don't choose the best one. No, I choose the best of the worst. They're either bad, or they're bad. No one's perfect; everyone has their flaws. So when I choose, I choose the least flawed. Even when I choose, they say, "The one you chose is bad!" — I say, "I know they're bad, but there's only a small percentage of badness!"
I don't know; I still feel like it's something bad. I mean, you like someone's idea and you support them, but it's like the groups of supporters of someone's ideas divide us and distance us from each other. Like what's happening now in the elections, I mean: El-Sisi's supporters and Sabahi's supporters. I don't know why they're dividing people and causing problems.
