SUPREME GUIDE
What guide? The guide of the Muslim Brotherhood, or the police guide?
Honestly, the word guide has many meanings.
We'd hear the word guide before the revolution, and for us it meant a tour guide—a guide for tourists. More precisely, the guide for the folk, the one who guides us, who takes us around..
There are people who use the word guide to mean the police guide—the one who spies on people and conveys their news to State Security. That's a terrible thing, and I'm not going to talk about it; instead, I'll talk about the supreme guide of the Muslim Brotherhood.
The word guide changed a lot after the revolution, especially after Morsi reached power. We got to know the supreme guide as a single individual who leads the Muslim Brotherhood.
We, as a people, when we hear the word guide in regards to the Muslim Brotherhood, we think he's a god below a god.
I learned about this from my friends who belong to the Muslim Brotherhood party; they have a principle of blind obedience to the supreme guide. I mean, anything he says to them, they do—without disobeying God, of course. But they believe anything he says without reservation.   
I think that the Muslim Brothers have reached the level of enslaving themselves to the supreme guide. They see him as a very important person, they listen to what he says, and stuff.
People think that the supreme guide is another God for the Muslim Brotherhood, but it's not really like that. They're really distorting the picture. They make people think that he's a great dictatorial authority, and so on, and so on, but it's completely the opposite. It's the people's will that he be in control. In reality, he is chosen by elections; it's a Shura order. People elect him because he's got the kind of character that can lead—he's a humble person, a virtuous person with strong faith, a person who is firm when it's required, and a person who can lead a meeting.
But I think he's not their senior leader. I feel like it's actually a game. Like, there's someone who moves him, or who gives him orders. He's just put as a face in the picture so that if someone wants to kill him… if the powers that be decide that the organization is destroying the country, they indite or arrest him. He's the face of the thing, so he goes.
The role of the supreme guide of the Muslim Brotherhood is to enforce the Shura—he puts the decisions made by the Muslim Brotherhood's Shura Council in place. There are many leaders with him in the Brotherhood, so for anything to be issued, everyone has to sit together and confer. There are a lot of leaders, some high and some low, and they are all present when they make any decision. They make decisions by referendum. So, at the end of the day, the supreme guide might have an opinion contrary to an opinion made by the Brotherhood's Shura Council—his own desire—but he understands what Shura means: Shura is the collective opinion, the opinion of the majority. That's what happened at the time of the presidential elections; he didn't agree that the Brotherhood should run a candidate for President. But after he took the opinion of the majority, they said that they wanted him to run. So he went with their decision.
It's my opinion that he participated in getting us to where we are now, and he'll be held accountable for that—him and Morsi and those people at the top. They'll be held accountable for what happened; they'll be held accountable for the people who are dying. Except, I also doubt that they'll be held accountable for the people who are dying, whether they belong to the Brotherhood or not.