TAHRIR SQUARE
Tahrir Square is a lively square at the center of the Arab Republic of Egypt, in the center of downtown, in the governorate of Cairo. It is a lively place, easy to gather in, to gather التواجد فيه in huge numbers. Perhaps even a million people could fit there. 
Before the revolution, it was crowded. Really, really crowded.
For Egyptians who don't live in Cairo, Tahrir Square, or downtown in general, is Egypt. The places in the heart of Cairo — Fouad Street, Attaba, the Nile Corniche, Qasr al Nil, Talaat Harb, Sharif — to Egyptians who don't live in Cairo, all of those places are Cairo. They are Egypt. Because that's where you find all the markets, government services, non-governmental services, commerce. But it didn't have الأهمية والجلال importance or glory. In our opinion, it was just a square, a place to take a nice walk, to find lots of offices, shops and restaurants. You go through it to get to Abdel Minaam Riyadh station, to transit to a lot of other places. There's the Egyptian Museum, little parks where you can sit and breathe some fresh air, and the American University.
Before the revolution, Tahrir Square brought to mind the movie "Irhab wa Kebab" (Terrorism and Kebob) and [its star] Adel Imam, but it turned out to be much bigger than that. It was the place where revolutionary youth gathered and spilled their blood. They are the real reason for the النقلة that we are in. Tahrir Square is where we first started to taste freedom.
The name Tahrir Square will forever be the square of freedom.
Maybe there are a lot of generations who haven't معاصرتش experienced what happened in the 70s and the 90s and the 30s, the history of Tahrir Square. So they know Tahrir Square for what they experienced and saw with their own eyes. فتولد قصادها الميدان في الحجز اللي هي عاصرته وشافته بعنيها. There are people who are a bit older and have more experience, who know the history of Tahrir, and they are the ones who noted that it is central, that if you are moving from the High Court or the Journalists' Syndicate, if you are moving from Shubra or I don't know where else, that Tahrir Square is the المصب  central point.
Tahrir Square is a symbol for all the revolution's youth, but it became an active symbol after التوجه والتواجد the gathering and the face-off in the Square, since before the revolution it was difficult for us to gather in the thousands anywhere. 
On January 25th, we were about 50,000 youth gathered at one time, entering Tahrir Square and عملوا معارك بطولية battling with the police. So it became a symbol of the revolution after 25 January.
Tahrir Square was on fire, and the NDP headquarters were on fire—that's what I heard. But did I go there? No. I heard, but every man at his word…every man at his word.
It's totally different now, like totally different. Like, I'm sure that there were people, a lot of people مكنتش بتحرص تروحه who didn't feel a need to go there before the revolution. I mean, if they found time they'd go there, or maybe they'd just pass by on their way somewhere else. But I am certain that right after the revolution, after the things that happened, there are a lot of people بقت تحرص who make it a point when they go to Cairo for any reason, that they must go to Tahrir Square in order to sit for awhile and take a few moments to remember the events that transpired, to look on the ground for a mark or a sign of what happened there, to buy souvenirs from those that are still being sold, like the flag. To the point that when people come back from Cairo, the first question they're asked is: "Did you go to Tahrir Square?" We ask them what they saw there.
For me, whenever I hear the word Tahrir Square, I imagine something artistic, a circle filled with people, and you see them from above. I imagine that a majority of the people in the Square—seventy percent of them—don't want something for themselves, they just want to see something good. They want to see other people get better, they want to see that something is getting better, even if they themselves aren't متأزمين fulfilled. They think that there is something better than what we have now, they think that there are other people that don't get their rights, and so they got together in the Square in order to communicate a specific demand. They made an artistic form more than they made a human form. I mean that Tahrir Square seems to me to be a painting. 
And also from inside, from inside the nation of Tahrir Square—and I persist in calling it a nation because it really was a nation. It was life; it was utopia. It became impossible for you to practice your normal daily life during the eighteen days, or more. I stayed four full days in Tahrir and I got to know people I'd never known before. I drew the best drawings of my life in that place. I became attached to the place in a romantic way. I fell deep in love with it. I loved every corner of it, I loved every poor vendor who came and gave me food for free, I loved every child who laughed from their belly though they didn't know what was happening.  
Starting January 25th, Tahrir Square was our second home. We slept there, we ate there—all of our lives unfolded in Tahrir Square in the days of the January 25 Revolution. We were all one hand, everyone taking care of each other. There was no difference between a Muslim and a Christian; when we prayed, we might find Christians standing all around us to protect us.
People really stayed there in the freezing cold on January 25, all of the people keeping each other warm.
Tahrir Square was the best place for the revolutionaries to feel themselves. They would go in and feel really relaxed, because they felt freedom there. They would go in and feel they were entering someplace totally different, unlike any other Square or anything.
Tahrir will remain forever, from today until the end of time, blood, martyrs, and وناس حطت people who stood up. People who might not have known anything, who might have never in their lives said no. People who said, "Enough, that's enough."
A place full of sweet memories. We laughed a bit, we died a bit, we revolted a bit. I met a lot of my friends there, we were shot at with gas bombs, and that's it, man…nothing happened.
It was our home and now it's almost a military institution or something like that, because of the الحجارة barriers. Everywhere we go there are حجارة barriers or barbed wire. There isn't one open place in Tahrir Square.
For me, after the revolution the Square became a symbol للإنتصار of victory, a symbol of justice, a symbol of للإرادة ???, a symbol that stands for many things. And now, for me, after the revolution, after three or four years have passed, I see that Tahrir Square is a place that I can't go to Cairo without going there بأمانة شديدة. I mean I can't go to Cairo now without seeing Tahrir Square; it's a really important thing for me. 
We imagine that the place is changed. We even imagine that when we look at it, it will be different. Maybe its walls will have changed, maybe the ground will look different, maybe the arrangement of things in it will be different. Maybe even the people there will be different. That's what we think. But the truth is that it's us who've changed. Our feelings have changed. The significance of the name has changed, even if the way it looks is the same. Even if nothing else ever happens there again, it's done: it's a different place.



