TAMAROD
In Arabic, tamarod [rebellion] means a person who has left the mainstream, and takes an unconventional approach.
At first, the word meant breaking with tradition.
It is itself a beautiful word that means a lot of things: rebellion against the self, against politics… rebellion against a lot of things.
After the revolution, it meant ignoring the approach that we might call legal, and adopting a more pertinent approach—an approach of reform. 
As they say, language is a living thing.
Especially after Morsi won the elections. It was a term used to describe the movement against Morsi. 
How did the idea of Tamarod come about? Hassan Shaheen and Mahmoud started Tamarod. They were sitting at a coffee shop… Mahmoud told this story… They were sitting at a coffee shop one day during Morsi's rule. They said, "We want to do something because this is it, the country is now in the hands of the Muslim Brotherhood. What should we do?" 
The idea for Tamarod came about. The idea was that we would gather signatures. Like they said at the beginning, "If there comes a day when the people come out against me…" Morsi said that. He said, "If that happens, I will leave power." There was an expectation that Morsi would go back and hold early presidential elections, or the regime would fall with no discussion. There was no solution halfway between the two.
Their idea was that they'd gather twenty million signatures. If they gathered twenty million, it would be more than the thirteen million votes Morsi got in the election, so he'd be deposed.
When Tamarod was established, everyone was with them; they all signed the petition. They were with them and they went along with them until Morsi was overthrown.
I'm one of the people who went out and collected petitions for Tamarod, and turned them in. I had a lot of petitions that I gave out to my friends; like, more than two hundred of them, almost. How many petitions did they collect? I think twenty-four million? It was a lot, a whole lot.
For instance, we in the 6 April [Movement] collected one million and two hundred thousand across the country, and in Suez alone we collected three or four thousand.
At first we didn't think that Tamarod was getting anything, because we were buying the petitions with our own money and doing it on our own. Later we found out that they were getting funds from the Emirates, and they were taking funds from the regime in order to keep going and take down Morsi.
I can assure you that no one was paying them. Because I'm one of the people who liked the idea, and we paid out of our own pockets to copy the petitions.
At first, we didn't imagine that the idea would succeed, or that it could take a president out of  his position. After a little while, the state itself opposed Dr. Morsi, and it stood with the Tamarod campaign. Or more accurately, Tamarod rescued the state.
Yeah, the media got into it, the police got into it, Intelligence got into it, the Army and everyone else. 
There were people who seriously believed that the Brotherhood had to go. There were people who sacrificed their lives so that the Brotherhood would go, or so that the Brotherhood would change their strict stance and their position in the government. People did indeed go out, and it was an unbelievably awesome crowd.
And then Tamarod announced its support for El-Sisi. They announced their support for the person who was Minister of Defense in Morsi's government. How do you make a petition against the whole regime—of which El-Sisi was a member—and then go back and support them again?
It's pretty well known that Tamarod was the work of the Intelligence.
Those youth didn't have the power to do anything without using Intelligence. Intelligence had a hold on Tamarod from the beginning; they're the ones behind it. I mean, it was a well-played game.
Tamarod was created by the Intelligence? Part of that is true… and, a second part was also Intelligence. Or, the Army was able to exploit them, play with them, and use them as an example. When did I become aware of this? July 26th—the day of the mandate. The story was suddenly clear; Tamarod appeared because of that day, and the whole thing was clear. But you were caught in a struggle between the Muslim Brotherhood and the government, and you hoped things would change. You hoped that they had learned—you felt certain and you knew that you had no alternative. You didn't have El-Baradei, who was the only hope. You had Hamdeen, who couldn't get to power on his own.
What I know now is that Tamarod… from what I hear in the media… that most of them left the movement and stood in solidarity with the demonstrations that were happening. They stood in solidarity with legitimacy, because they had been tricked into thinking that they could turn the country against Morsi and against the Brotherhood. But later the truth was revealed to them: that they were a cover for a coup and that the coup used them to get what they wanted.
The Tamarod movement started with the defective constitutional announcement, and it ended with the fall of Morsi. Take note: it's us, the Egyptian people, who built Tamarod. We waited for them, and we made them into leaders. When Mahmoud Badr at the age of thirty years stood up and said to the Egyptian people, "Tomorrow is our date," and the Egyptian people went out into the streets, is it the people who started it, or the young man who ordered it and the people just replied?
It's something new that ruined the idea of revolution itself, because it brought about the concept of lobbying. Like in America, don't they have lobbies there, like the tobacco lobby? The lobby doesn't work in tobacco or anything; its work is to do campaigning and I don't what other stuff. That's Tamarod. 
After July 3rd, we found out that Tamarod was a lie like everything else, and that the Intelligence created it. But that doesn't negate that the people themselves protected Tamarod, because Tamarod isn't its individual members. I mean, the members of Tamarod didn't make twenty-two million. 
 

 







