TANK
Some time ago, when I was still in school, I'd see drawings of tanks in history books. When there was, like, a lesson about the war in 1973, there'd be a drawing of a tank on the page. Before 2011, before the revolution, I used to hear about tanks, but I never saw one with my own eyes. After the revolution, when the Army started going out into the street, I started to see what tanks looked like. I could walk right next to them. I could have my picture taken with a soldier while he was standing on the tank. It was a really different feeling. 
It was a kind of celebration—any bride and groom would ياخدوا بعضهم and get their picture taken with the tank; a couple of friends would ياخدوا بعضهم and get their picture taken with the tank… get their picture taken with the soldier standing on the tank… the soldier in the army who was standing in front of the tank. My mother and my sister were in Alex during the revolution, too; they saw a tank and had their picture taken with it. 
You know Groppi, where they have ice cream? I saw a tank there or something like that. I saw a tank and the Army was standing on it. I had my picture taken with them and I held their guns.
From January 28th until June 30th, tanks controlled the streets. We were really afraid of them after the clearing of the sit-in on March 9th. We were even more afraid of them when they ran over the Coptic Christian youth who were sitting-in at Maspero—the Maspero massacre. I mean, the tank is a symbol for blood. Whenever it comes, we know that داخلة تشيل فينا it's coming to kill us.
I'd never seen a tank in my life, except in national monuments. I saw them after the revolution, but I didn't feel like they meant anything at all—I mean, just national monuments, something that's existed since time immemorial. Supposedly, tanks themselves express the idea of war, but I don't suppose they have any meaning in and of themselves, other than being antiquarian things.
Tanks mean something that you can't see inside of—you don't know when they'll shoot at you, either. They have a screen inside, and a camera and a mirror outside. You can't see them.
The tank is safety and protection. When it comes out, it comes out to protect the citizens—the people walking in the streets. Well… beware… my Army could never attack citizens. The tank is just a symbol of protection they send out. Maybe there's a thief, or someone cursing, or someone beating someone up, or someone setting things on fire, or whatever else… they know that the tank is not going to do anything to them, but they're scared. It's just the fear inside them: «أنا عارف إني داخل غلط بس جوايا ضميري» "I know I'm doing something wrong, but I have a conscience." You know the conscience? The tank plays with your conscience.