The Muslim Brotherhood is an organization founded by Hassan al-Banna in 1928 in Ismailia.
My image of the Brotherhood before the revolution was that they were a political faction in the country with a reasonably moderate level of religious leaning, that the majority of them were respectable people who work in good places, and that a lot of them are charitable and have good ideas.
In my opinion, Hassan al-Banna is a fascinating individual in that he was able to create an ideology in a way that has lasted all this time. I believe that it is the only organization that is really organized, unlike all of the other political currents. Like, the Left isn't organized, nor the liberals, nor anyone else.
What I know from history is that the Muslim Brotherhood was a nice group of youth who decided that, with a strong religious background, they would begin to struggle against colonialism's corruption. Now, they've become an instrument, in my opinion.  They've transformed into a tool in a larger scheme to reduce the Middle East to a bottomless pit of troubles. I want to know what their aim is, what their plan is. I want to know their program, because I don't know! Since they appeared, until Morsi came, and up till now, I still don't know.
The development of the Muslim Brotherhood up to Anwar Sadat—up to the crazy, hellish idea that Anwar Sadat came up with from one of his proponents—disconnected the Muslim Brotherhood from the Egyptian left. The organization lost its independence and began a love affair with the regime, and the regime became a mission thrown on the shoulders of the Brotherhood. I am of the opinion that in order for us to speak about the Brotherhood, we must speak about the Brotherhood that ended its history when it accepted that task. I am of the opinion that accepting the task was a watershed moment. You are now facing the Muslim Brotherhood of Anwar Sadat. You are facing the Muslim Brotherhood of the government.
In the days of Mubarak's regime, the Brotherhood was a circle within the National Democratic Party. There were three parts: the first part was the philanthropic one, that Mubarak allowed to feed the people so they would forget about a lot of things; the second part was the jihadi one, which Mubarak used in Sinai; and the third part is the political part, which he used in Parliament. They were Hosni Mubarak's lackeys until they achieved their objective. 
From our perspective in Suez, the Muslim Brotherhood was the only opposition before the revolution. It's the only governorate in which the Brotherhood wins in parliamentary elections.
It's the largest organization in the world. For example, the word of the supreme guide of the Brotherhood organization is followed by the whole of the organization, from start to finish—from the least important to the most important member.
They're an international organization; they aren't just in Egypt. They're in Egypt and Tunisia, in Turkey and Morocco, in Libya and Sudan. They're all over the place.
In the beginning, the Brotherhood was with the public. They were in the streets giving out sugar and oil, so people felt they were being helped—the poor and ignorant people. They lived with them in the street and understood them; they knew people were كفرانة and not getting their rights. So they felt like they might get something good out of them.
We live in a country where people can't find anything to eat. I mean, people aren't supposed to go to bed hungry, without clothes; they're supposed to have full stomachs and sleep in their own homes, not in poverty. They exploit that in their own interests. They say, "Come, I'll get you food." Obviously, they've got millions of followers here. Poverty in Egypt makes it a piece of cake.
Personally, I was raised with the Brotherhood since I was little. My father is a Muslim Brother, but I'm not. They try to wipe out the thoughts in my mind. For instance, I might have a point of view, but they say, "No, your point of view is wrong." They try to eliminate the mind completely, and put in the information they want.
It was called "Family." An old woman would sit in front, and some teenage girls would sit and listen to her talk about certain religious things. I went and it was nice to get to know things about religion that I didn't know before. But when I started to say what I thought, she said to me, "No, stop, don't destroy their minds. You and I will talk later." What?! I can't say what I think, I can't express my opinion? No, sorry but that's too much.
I dealt with the Muslim Brotherhood during the eighteen days and I am able to say that they are people who are interested only in what's to their own benefit, in their own interest, in what's at stake for them. Or, they'll trample down others without any problem at all. Yeah, I might even kill my own son if it's to my own benefit—that's the Brotherhood. They don't have… they kind of don't value nationalism. They value the interests of their own organization—nothing more.
I went out on the 25th and the people who were with me were supposedly real Muslim Brothers. This revolution—the 25th Revolution—the Muslim Brotherhood won it. They understood the plan and knew how to make a revolution; they knew how to ينحوا الشرطة جانبا put the police to the side in order to allow the people to make a revolution and succeed and stuff.
The Muslim Brotherhood was very organized in the Square. When the Camel Battle came upon us, they made a human shield—them and the Ultras.
With their enormous number and their organization, they succeeded in the revolution. Except they weren't the ones who sparked it; I mean, they weren't the ones who started it. 
After the eighteen days—after Mubarak gave his speech and resigned—the Brotherhood were the first ones to leave the Square. 
At the time of the presidential elections, we had two choices: Mohamed Morsi or Shafik. So of course, in spite of ourselves, we chose Morsi because we thought he would meet the demands of the revolution. As we said, make juice out of lemons. We juiced our lemons, but I really wish we hadn't.
When the revolution rose up and along with it their chance for power, I supported them one hundred percent. I voted for every one of the Muslim Brothers who ran for parliament—I gave my vote to Abdel Monem Abo al-Fatouh, and after that to Morsi. We were hungry for democracy.
After that, the whole thing turned around.
As soon as the Brotherhood took power, we said, "Nice! The Brotherhood! We'll be an Islamic country, and have Sharia law." I said, "The Brotherhood knows how to make me feel safe." Why safe? Because of your religion. We were really happy. When they got in power we thought the dance channels on TV, the cabarets on Haram Street, and all of that would go away. I was sure about them; I felt I could deal with them with blind trust. Yeah, he understands his religion, he has a conscience—he's holding the book of God so he must have a conscience. It turned out that they don't know God. I know God—I'm an ignorant woman who didn't finish junior high school—but I know God more than them.
Their name is pretty much wrong: the Muslim Brotherhood. Who called you Muslim Brotherhood and why are you taking my name? Did I choose you, in order for you to call yourselves that? Muslim means me. Whenever the Brotherhood does something, they are seen as Muslims—anyone would understand it that way, in any other country.
Obviously they took the name politically, but of course religion should not be politicized. So  to begin with it's morally wrong to make a political party on that basis and speak in its name. That way, you've essentially assaulted Islam. You didn't achieve the idea of an Islamic Union; you pretty much completely destroyed it.
I don't have to be a Muslim Brother in order to be religiously upstanding.
I always felt that Islam has a kind of uncovering, a sort of light—that you are not afraid. The things that happen in the dark are not Islam. All of their work was in the shadows, and that made me uncomfortable. This is not an organization that is able to live in the light, and this is not the group that can represent the whole, because they have always been a part.
They have never been in the mainstream, and I have never met someone in person who claimed to be a Muslim Brother politically—of course, no one would have been able to admit it. Needless to say, we started hearing about the Brotherhood after the revolution, and for me personally it was a shock. I think that a lot of Egyptians were shocked because no one knew how large they were! Because it was all hidden.
Despite everything that's happened, I still believe it was in our interest, because at least we got to know what we're dealing with. We got to know what's in our country. We didn't know each other, and that's the problem. No one knows each other. I believe that's a large part of why there was no loyalty and no unity. There really wasn't a revolution because we don't know each other. Everyone is on their own depending on their work, where they live, where they study. As long as we're segregated like that—as long as we don't know each other—we will be called Egyptians but we won't be Egyptians.
We are a people who don't think. I see people in front of me whose history is recorded. I know their history very well, and I've scrutinized them. This isn't the first time I've tried them out. Everybody's just scared, saying, "We don't want felool. That Shafik is gonna be felool and everything will be ruined, so we're gonna vote for Morsi." Sorry, but I am felool. You sir are felool and he's felool! And the Brotherhood are felool! In Mubarak's time, they were recruited by Mubarak; in Sadat's time, they were recruited by Sadat, because Sadat was the one who مطلعهم brought them out. And who killed Sadat? They did.
All of my life, I've thought that Abdel Nasser's one mistake… well, he made a couple of mistakes, and among them that he killed the Muslim Brothers. You see, I had some hope in them. After the revolution, I understood why he killed them.
They are an international organization with a certain aim, and they want to achieve their objective in their own way. It's a cunning way—the way of the cunning peasant—which is that when you have enemies you don't go right up to them with your chest held high and confront the problem head on. No, you sit and drink a cup of tea with them, you talk to them, you distort, you misrepresent, you turn them around in circles. That's their way and that's what's in their minds—they take power, they are felool, and they become American agents.
Really, their place is the same as animals: in cages. They can't be let out. Do you let a rabid مسعور dog out of its cage? You'll see what happens. It'll bite everyone. That's exactly what they did—as soon as they got of their cages, they were a blight on God's creation. They conspired with this guy and that. Everything is ruined because of them.
After they came to rule, their true faces were revealed. They sell out, betray, do whatever بيسعوا is in their personal benefit. They بحيث even give jobs to their followers; they implement everything they desire in their own interest. They don't get the rights of the martyrs, the people who died, or the people who were injured.
When Egypt has a regime that's absent لما يبقى في نظام مصر عنده يعني ملهاش وجود , and when they say that the organization is more important that Egypt, what is that about? What regime? Obviously I can't allow that kind of thing. If you don't pay attention to your country, your nation, then what are we gonna talk about?
Once I was walking, my friend and I, and I was wearing one of those necklaces that have a picture of El-Sisi and his name on it. A Brotherhood guy said to me, "Why are you wearing that?" — I said, "Well, because I follow El-Sisi." — So he says to me, "Yeah but El-Sisi kills people." — So I said to him, "Really no, he doesn't kill people—it's the Brotherhood that kills people."
They're bad people, but they're not devils. We use them as the scapegoat for everything. These days if the sewer is backed up someplace we'd blame the Brotherhood for it. Any terrorism, and it's the Brotherhood that did it.
In my opinion they are a terrorist organization, but I don't like the way they were classified as a terrorist organization. Whenever there is an explosion it turns out it was a different organization, and مفيش حكم محكمة مثلا طلع بإن حد فيهم مدان في حاجة بعينها. there is no trial to prove that one of them had something to do with it. If they are going to be classified as a terrorist organization, there should be a clear process. People don't have the the green light to go deal with them just because they want to; they can't imprison and kill them at their leisure, and do whatever they like with them.
They have their disadvantages, but I do think they have been dealt with unjustly. They've been oppressed by the government—by past governments—and they are oppressed now. As we've seen a lot of them have died—their youth who don't have anything to do with anything, maybe someone who just supports an opinion, who wants to stand in solidarity with the Brotherhood. I can't say, "What are you up to?" It's none of my business to ask, "What are you up to?"
All of the Brotherhood is oppressed and especially Morsi is oppressed. When he was in prison it was difficult for him and he cried, and honestly I cried for him. He wasn't doing anything. In the days of Morsi things were cheap, but today everything is very expensive.
Maybe because I'm an old man, I said we should be patient with them for four years and then change things through elections. The youth had a different opinion. The youth made the Tamarod petitions and went out in the streets. Take note: if the people agreed to early elections and Morsi ran again, I would have voted for him again.
For me, the word Brotherhood is now tied to stupidity. They got to a place where they could have implemented their ideas, and still they didn't know how to use it. I don't have anything against them. Everything comes in stages and up to a point, we were all prepared from the start to هنمر pass through many, many stages.
After the revolution I found out how much enormous ignorance we have in Egypt, even in the organized entities among us. It's a قلل فارغة that doesn't have a true order. It doesn't have anything to يشرح القلب soothe the heart or make you happy, or to feel any kind of hope.
After the revolution, I'm a million percent certain that the Muslim Brotherhood supported the January 25th Revolution. But I'm also a million percent certain that they lost the January 25th Revolution. So, the Brotherhood is a failure. Yes, they have faith, but they are political failures. They don't get it. They understand each other, yeah, but they have a major social deficiency. I mean they can't possibly live amongst human beings.
No one should judge another person… except if they've dealt with them. So now I have to get to know these people and live with them.





