TERRORISM

Recently, they say, "Terrorism"—that there's terrorism in the country. I want to know from the people who use the word, what does it mean to you? Hey you using this term, what do you mean when you say it? Maybe it means something different to you than it does to us. I feel like we're in a time where concepts have changed.
In the nineties in the Arab World, no one had a clear definition for terrorism. They didn't know who was a terrorist, and they didn't know what terrorism was. When you go to look for the definition of the word itself, you find that the word in Arabic is defined by the law: the use of force in an act with the intent of inflicting panic and terror, or whatever…that's the definition. Except no one knows who the terrorists are. Like, in the nineties Egyptians looked to the people who were going to fight in Afghanistan and Bosnia and Herzegovina as mujahideen, going to do something good.
Every since we were little and in school and that sort of thing, we dealt with popular resistance—popular resistance to occupation, I mean—as a patriotic thing. The idea that people would go blow up an English camp or assassinate an Egyptian minister who's a traitor, those were patriotic things. The resistance in Egypt that killed the English or whatever—pretty much all of them were Muslim Brothers, but that's in the history that we studied in school—those were great people who were resisting.
I focus on the Palestinian part, because it's a word that was repeated a lot and they were referred to as terrorists, in spite of the fact that they were defending their own land. From my perspective a terrorist is someone who destroys, like someone who kills people in the name of religion or whatever—that's a terrorist. But when you see a demonstration or whatever and you call it terrorism, or you see someone defending their rights and you call it terrorism, I don't know. I feel like there's someone else looking on from outside and persuading them, other people who have convinced them that this really is terrorism. It's like if a guy goes the doctor and the doctor says, "Your son is dead," and the kid gets up and says, "Dad, I'm not dead," and the guy says, "Son, lay back down. The doctor said that you are dead. Are you telling me you know more than the doctor?"
In most of the press, newspapers, and media that talked about terrorism before last year, it was terrorism that happened abroad. It's a translation of the English word terrorism, because the media here comes via London; it doesn't come via Al-Qaeda. The Egyptian media doesn't say, "Al-Qaeda announces has declared it success by the grace of God in invading the lands of disbelief and infidelity in their homeland." It comes via English, so ultimately it ties the idea of terrorism to the beard, and erases the image of terrorism before the terrorism of the abaya and the beard. If we stopped anyone in the street right now and asked them, "Do you know who Carlos is, the terrorist Carlos?" they'll laugh, because they think that a terrorist is either Ahmed or Mohamed, Osama or Ali. There's no such thing as a terrorist named Carlos. No one would believe that there ever was such a thing.
When they said that there were Muslim terrorists on 9/11, it made the world hate Islam. Now, if you go to America or wherever: "What's your name?" — "Mohamed." — "You're a terrorist." Why is there this fear of terrorists when George Bush or Clinton or whoever said it? They said, "There are terrorists in Egypt." They gave the idea that Islam is terrorism.
Before the revolution, terrorism was an idea from America—the War on Terror, Afghanistan and Iraq and that kind of thing. I never imagined that we would say it about ourselves as well—that one day we'd fight terrorism.
After the June 30th revolution, that sort of thing increased—the bloody combat on men who are either police or Army personnel. I've noted that in the recent past these things have increased, terrorism I mean. What surprises me is that it's happening every day here in our country. Every day an Army officer dies, a police officer, an innocent bystander who hasn't done anything wrong. Unfortunately, I guess it's a phenomenon that has come inside Egypt.
After June 30th, Egypt got interested again in the subject of terrorism. It's so laughable that the the masked man who kept blowing up the gas lines in the days of the revolution up until June 30th was called the masked one in the media. They didn't even use the expression terrorist for him. After June 30th, anytime anyone does anything it's terrorism. In its fight with the Muslim Brotherhood, the government has exploited the word and put…it made a list of terrorists in Egypt for the first time. We didn't have a list of terrorist organizations before. For us, it's one of the ironies that the government put the Muslim Brotherhood on the list of terrorist organizations while Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis—which performs terrorist acts and comes out and says, "It was us! We are responsible for that act!"—isn't on the list, and the government blames the Muslim Brothers. 
Terrorism is a word that has been conveyed by the government and the Army to the people to scare them, to convince them that the Muslim Brotherhood will spread chaos and panic, that they will commit crimes that don't…that have no limit. To frighten the people, to terrify them and so on. Of course half of the people are convinced that there is terrorism and that the Muslim Brothers are responsible for it. And all of that is built on this word, terrorism.
If you searched for the terrorist, you will find that he is Egyptian, an Egyptian who lived and struggled and participated in the January 25th Revolution. When the Army came, they called it terrorism. When we look to Syria and find, for example, Islamists seeking freedom, Bashar calls them terrorists. They call the Muslim Brotherhood terrorists, an extremist group. Why don't they say this faction has the right to live? When we talk about democracy, we talk about freedom; we must always give freedom to the other.
This word exists in the Qur'an, where it means intimidation. Intimidation in defense of oneself.
The Qur'an uses the word in the verse, "Prepare for an encounter against them all of your forces and steeds of war to terrify the enemies of God and your own enemies." So, when the word is used to describe Muslims, who is it that is afraid of them? From the words of the Qur'an—the enemies. So obviously the media uses this word in a really wrong way, they use it to describe devout people, as if all the people are infidels except the devout ones. The media painted this image for people: that the devout are terrorists. Don't people know that in order to be afraid of the devout, they must be infidels? And people aren't infidels. People are Muslim, too.
Islam completely rejects terrorism. In Islam, there is no hate in religion. It's the first thing. Islam renounces terrorism, renounces it. Likewise, Christians renounce terrorism, renounce the thing that is taken by force. 
Terrorism is a ضايعة lost word in Egypt. No one knows the true elucidation of terrorism and its characterization inside the Arab Republic of Egypt. Ostensibly, the definition in use is a group of people who target citizens. That is called terrorism. Terrorism is group of armed people targeting children. Terrorism is a group that targets women who don't wear hijab, for instance. But what is happening in Egypt isn't terrorism, it's revenge operations. As a citizen, I don't know these entities that are attacking each other—I don't know them, they are not at the door of my house, they don't punish me, they don't kill me, they don't attack me. There are a whole lot of members of the Muslim Brotherhood around me everywhere. They aren't attacking us; they are attacking the forces that they think participated in killing them, who participated in classifying them with very broad classification procedures, and of course the mass killing of Islamist currents is a difficult truth this country is passing through. 
I don't see torture and terrorism and these things from anyone except the police. Even the Muslim Brothers in my opinion don't use terrorism. I don't know, maybe they've done it but I haven't felt it. I feel that the State has always used terrorism against the people; they feed it to them. I mean, when they take some people who are demonstrating in front of the court for Khaled Said, and they're not really doing anything, since they're essentially a very small number, and they arrest them and call them terrorists…how is that? Are we joking or what?
Whatever problem we have, we're fighting terrorism. We want water — "Terrorism." We want electricity — "Terrorism." The economy is ruined — "Well anyway we're not available because we're fighting terrorism." There are no investors because we're fighting terrorism. The police don't have time to regulate traffic because we're fighting terrorism. Tourism is ruined because of terrorism. Everything is because of terrorism. There's no work because of terrorism. 
Long ago, when we learned that terrorists are people who blow themselves up in places or kill people, at the time the whole thing might have been sort of terrifying. After that, during the revolution, the word was totally banal and not terrifying. The government uses it with the aim of intimidating the public, so that you have people who are frightened of things larger than themselves, so that they will be more subservient to you. So they need you and think that you are important.
Terrorism is a word, a word that became suddenly absurd. No one can grasp it, so one is…once the word is released, it becomes impossible to keep it in hand. That's impossible. Now, the word is out and it's spread around—you can't stop it.


 


