TERRORISTS

Whoever has a weapon to assault someone who doesn't is a terrorist.
Without a doubt, terrorists are those who have weapons. They have ذخيرة, they have everything, and they kill people for no reason. They kill people without sense or anything; they'll kill anyone just for their extremist ideas. That's who you call terrorists.
The first time I was conscious of the word 'terrorists' was when the Muslim Brotherhood was designated as a terrorist organization. It was one of the worst things for me that Muslim, Egyptian people were called terrorists. They made a lot of big political mistakes, but unfortunately we reached the point where we converted it into terrorism. I suppose that the media was to blame.
Isn't the Army the موجه التهمة for the Muslim Brothers being terrorists? Do you know why they موجهلها them? Because they are the ones that بيحرضوا, they're the ones obtaining money to give to someone to get a weapon and kill with it. Or without money, they use influence—influencing opinion—or financial influence. They are the ones who give other people weapons and allow them to attack. 
Yeah, I don't doubt that there is terrorism in Egypt—and a lot of it—and that Morsi is the one who got us into terrorism in a horrible way. But there are poor, ignorant people who love the Muslim Brothers and those people, and they are called terrorists. Someone might have joined them because they're hungry, for instance. Why are they called a terrorist? What did they do wrong?
They are not terrorists. Terrorists don't go out in marches and demonstrations; they would never participate in anything like that. A terrorist goes out with a weapon and kills right away, because they are a terrorist.
I know that if I go out in any march, they will هيصنفوني classify me as a terrorist. They know very well that I am not a terrorist. But anyone who comes out against the regime now—who goes out in a little march with no more than fifty persons—will be classified as a terrorist.
Any regime that tries to frighten people away from a certain organization calls them 'terrorists', «متشددين» أو «متعصبين». What is that? Nowadays when someone says,  «هنطبق شرع ربنا» "We'll enforce the law of God," —for instance, cutting the hand of the thief or executing the murderer, those are religious laws. So when they say, "We'll enforce the law of God," they reply, "No, we won't be able to enforce it. We have courts," and that sort of thing. So who is the terrorist?
In general, the idea is that terrorism makes people afraid. The Army played it right; they knew how to make الكبش الفدا that they could frighten people with, to really convince them that those people are terrorists. So you're scared of them, and scared that you will die in a terrorist attack. But you won't die in a car accident, you won't die of hepatitis C, you won't die from a doctor's mistake in the hospital, and you won't die in a train accident. You won't die of any of that at all; you will be killed by a terrorist, just like that. It's the most likely prediction, and those other things are really, really, really far away from you and your life. Clearly.


 


