THIRD HAND
The third hand is the one we're all supposed to be afraid of: me, the government and the people against the government. 
It's not really a logical word. What is the third hand, anyway? I don't understand. And if there is a third hand, who are the first and the second? It's a word I honestly don't get. I don't understand its meaning.
It's neither you nor me. That's the third hand: the one we don't know.
I always remember when I was a kid and my mother wanted me to come in from playing in the street because it was starting to get dark. I wouldn't want to go in, so she would always use a completely third thing that doesn't exist—like the boogeyman or thieves that kidnap little girls or whatever—to get me to go inside. That's the third hand.
I heard about the third hand in the days of the revolution, but I didn't know it before. The first time I heard it was in the media—specifically in the Egyptian state media, where it's used with abandon.
It's common in the whole media. We went an entire year when the media talked all about it.
The third hand appeared around the first transitional period, in the first eighteen days of the revolution. There were protests going out, calls for million man marches… the youth and whoever were going out, so there were frictions that turned into clashes. Of course, people said about the clashes, "No, those youth are peaceful. They're peaceful and they're calling for peace, and the police and security aren't assaulting them." So they'd say, "This third hand is the reason for the clash, not those two groups: not the youth, nor the security." The third hand came and threw a Molotov cocktail on the police, so the police fired their weapons. The Molotov fell on the police and the demonstrators got shot, and nothing happened to the third hand.
Under the leadership of Tantawi, SCAF starting talking about "the third hand." Some of the media personalities who support the regime, like Mostafa Bakry, Lamis Al-Hadidi, and Khairy Ramadan, would talk about the third hand. Even the Muslim Brotherhood started talking about the third hand.
I saw them on TV talking about the third hand, so I followed for a bit, ok? They were insisting that there's a third hand that goes around killing people. Honestly… I don't want to lie to you… I followed the media. They said, "It's the Muslim Brotherhood," so I said, "It's the Muslim Brotherhood." In the end, it's a word they made up to draw us away from something we wanted, and that was the January 25th Revolution. There is no third hand, and those people are playing with words.
The third hand is everyone clashing with everyone… everyone. They said the third hand was hired people. They said it was the Brotherhood. They said it was the revolutionaries.
The second hand is always the one who creates the third hand, because the second hand is generally the stronger one. They need a third hand so that you need them.
There are people who believed in a third hand. And after that, when the third hand became an accusation, a used word, it meant a specific faction: the third hand who killed so-and-so, the one who burned down so-and-so's building.
I don't understand. Really… up till this point, I don't know who it is.
It might be a group of people who tries to do acts of sabotage or something, but in their personal interest.
It could be an individual or a group of people who thinks in a way that's beyond human understanding. They think in a way that's different in terms of culture or lifestyle; they have the ability to do things that the Middle Eastern mind cannot comprehend. They're really professional, to the point that they can be a third hand without anyone knowing. That's what I imagine anyway.
The third hand were the felool: the remnants of the old regime. They fooled us and gave us the illusion of a counterrevolution or whatever, so that we'd run after them against the counterrevolution and forget about the original revolution. It's what created chaos in the country; it's what gave people the image of rotten, despicable youth. It ruined the image of the Square so that it would collapse, and that's the truth we're living now. 
If the third hand is an idea, it's America and Israel. American imperialism and Israel.
And maybe my dick is the third hand.
Third hand is an expression that always makes me laugh, because it denotes a mythical thing to which they attribute the actions of security forces and Intelligence. They do illegal and illegitimate things—harmful things—and they attribute them to what they call the third hand.
I think the military is the one who made up the third hand.
The media is the third hand, I swear… the media and its business. I mean, the one who advertises is the same one who holds the camera, and he's the one who gets the third hand so that he can shoot the scene you'll watch. That's it.
Third hand is a word that makes you feel like you're stretching… you're moving through the ages, through all the possibilities, just to justify a crime that happened. The media broadcasts it to us so that there can always be an accusation. Someone is always blaming the third hand. 
You'll find some of the National Democratic Party blaming the third hand. After that, the revolutionaries blame the third  hand. El-Sisi blames it… There's always a third hand and it's always unknown. It's the hidden enemy, so it's always easy to blame it for anything.
It's the bin in which we throw everything. Any problem: the third hand. Anything that happens, "Obviously, it's the third hand."
Now, it's the thing on which the government blames all its mistakes. Whatever happens, they say, "It's a foreign agenda." Anything that happens, any friction that they can't control, they say, "It's an agenda from abroad," — "There's a counterrevolution." — and, "There's a third hand." And on and on.
There was a man a long time ago who had great physical strength, and if he held a big stick no one could contend with him. He was dispassionate and didn't care about anything, and when there were disputes he wouldn't bother to get up and fight. So his relatives would say, "There's someone hiding behind you to knock you down!" As soon as he got knocked over, he'd think the others had hit him and get annoyed. From there, it was easy. That's the secret: calculated conduct for producing deliberately planned and programmed problems.

