THUGS
It used to be a regular curse word.
Before the revolution, it was tied to crime, abuse and violations of the personal sanctity of human beings. 
I heard the word "thugs" before the revolution in a report by Mahmoud Saad on the elections. There were people going out in support of a certain candidate, so they would grab them and say, "Who are you going to vote for?" As soon as they found out that they were taking a group along with them, they stopped them with bludgeons and those sort of weapons that they use. So Mahmoud Saad made a report on the thugs who were paid—because they pay them—to play a part in one of the candidates winning the elections. They prevented people from voting and that sort of thing.
I heard it on the Al-Jazeera TV channel. I heard it on January 28th. It was coming from the position of the revolutionaries in the street themselves; they were describing the others in Tahrir Square. Of course, their struggle was with the police, but it was with the group of thugs that belonged to them. At first they weren't thugs; they were groups with interests tied to those in power, who took on a certain political form. But in the end they turned out to be a minority, and they were defeated. They came to attack the protesters and performed a military role for those in power, so they became just that: thugs.
The word became a completely popular term in the Camel Battle. Now, it's a blasphemous political designation. In Syria they call them shabiha. In Sudan, rabata. I don't know what they call them in Yemen. 
The police were enlisting thugs to go into the Square and spoil the people's jubilation—to spoil their hope.
The thugs that they sent out to clear the sit-ins with weapons and be with them… I mean, the regime hired them to clear the sit-ins and break up the marches and that kind of thing. They ruined anything we tried to do to get our rights and stuff.
They called us thugs a lot, in that we would go out in demonstrations and get assaulted by the police. When we retaliated, they would call us thugs… because we were responding to them when they assaulted us with gas and shot at us, and we just fought back with stones.
Anyone who differs with the regime gets arrested and called a thug.
It turned into an instrument of repression used by those in power in certain moments to stop a particular popular movement. It became part of the political process as a trend: to take on the role of a militia, for one side to use a group of thugs as a militia. It described the political currents, and it was used by them to describe each other: thugs and thuggery. 
To tell you the truth, I don't know who the thugs are.
Now it's an occupation. Everyone wants to get their rights with weapons; they want to get their rights by force. There are people who enforce their control over certain places like government institutions, which is not right. They say, "I want my rights… I want such-and-such." Ok, so why are you putting a weapon in my face while I'm just a regular employee? I'm working right now as a government employee and this has happened to me. Once I was at the Civil Registry when they set fire to it… do you remember? At the time, the Nubians were making trouble. They lit it on fire from downstairs and there were girls and women upstairs. They were screaming and crying. Terrorism! That's thuggery. That is thuggery.
Thugs is a word used to describe people who are not thugs, and not used to describe the true thugs. I mean that whoever is demanding their rights is a thug, and the one who has their rights—the one who is actually a thug, who goes out in the streets to aid the regime—is called an upstanding citizen. The word is flipped around.
This is something very significant right now that is used to blaspheme the citizen: either you're a thug, or you're an upstanding citizen.
If we went out to the Square right now, we'll find that it is all thugs. A group of mercenaries in the Square, who follow the former regime: Mubarak's regime. They are thugs for hire, available now in Tahrir Square. They claim to be followers of General Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, but I doubt that General Abdel Fattah El-Sisi could get people like that together.
In the days of the revolution, thugs would circle me when I was walking. دلوقتي ماشي رقبتي وأنا مرفوعة لفوق. Now I walk with my neck stuck out. That's just the way it is. You could be walking somewhere dark and no one's there, suddenly two or three of them are there. 
Thugs! Thugs have gotten to the top, to the seventh heaven above. Because thugs have gotten their rights from the people… from the poor, hardworking people. They are now the masters of this country. I swear it's true! They own companies and build buildings; they build and sell. They sell apartments for two million pounds, and they don't even have two million coins in their pockets. The thugs go and take land for free, they get into abandoned apartments for free—they know how to get in, while you can't.
Thugs. It's society that creates them. مش نقول بلطجية على الوش كده We don't just come out and say they are thugs. What made them get to be thugs? If everyone stood up for each other, there wouldn't be thugs. There wouldn't be an atmosphere that created thugs. 
The popular understanding of the word "thug": هو مش المفروض يكون هو they aren't who they appear to be. Get it? 
Look: thugs are like the knife that Ayman uses in the kitchen. It's not his hand; it's a tool. It's a tool that is used by someone who is able… someone who is able to grasp it. If I was able to get some thugs, I'd get some and use them to get a piece of land. If El-Sisi is able to get some thugs, he'll get thugs, mess with his competitor and restrain him. I don't thing that thugs are… that they are human beings. I think they are a tool and a weapon, and whoever can use them will.