TORTURE
Among the demands of the revolution: that there be no torture of any person, in any circumstance.
The revolution started with Khaled Said. We saw the torture of Khaled Said. We saw what happened. People witnessed him being assaulted; people saw and they were silent, afraid. People saw the security assaulting him and they were afraid. They didn't open their mouths and speak up. The same thing with Sayed Bilal. He was tortured in prison and he died from the amount of torture he received.
Let's not talk about torture because it's plain and clear. It's right in front of us; it isn't hidden. It exists in every form: torture of young boys and adults; hanging, beating, electrocution; in the prisons and at State Security. There have been lots of videos and leaks from the police stations. There are people who died from torture.
As a word, torture is known to be harmful events and events that inflict pain. The word was used a lot by people in Egypt before the revolution and it was always connected to the police. Torture of prisoners, torture of the accused, torture of politicians. Before the revolution, there were people who went to jail and prison, and who would come back out and testify to it. The people who talked about torture and its means were people who went to those places. 
Whoever was imprisoned—whether a Muslim Brother, a communist, a liberal, a secular, or whatever else—was tortured by the same means. Specifically, Muslim Brothers and communists were the people who were most often tortured there.
There was a march on 10/10/2010, we activists did it in front of the [Journalists] Syndicate. We were standing and protesting peacefully. We were appealing for the government to resign and other things. We weren't a large number, like no more than around two hundred. Some of us were arrested, some of us went home, and some of us were assaulted. I was one of the people who were arrested on 10/10/2010.
I was taken to the building belonging to the Ministry of Justice… the Ministry of Justice! That used to be the building where State Security was. They were on the eleventh and the thirteenth floor, on the top floor and the ground floor—the one that is completely underground. That's where they had the refrigerator and the electricity for torture. But up top, that was the last stage of torture, where you were hung up in the air for an hour or two, until they heard you say… They just wanted to hear you say the word, "Yes," and that was it. Whoever didn't say, "Yes," would stay and keep going. 
Have you seen the movie Karnak? When I went to prison in 2010, it was like I was watching Karnak. I couldn't believe what was happening. No, there couldn't be anything like that going on… it's impossible that they'd do that to us in prison. When I went in and saw the torture… No, it's true. In there, I saw every kind of torture that I've seen in my life. Every kind: electrocution, burning with cigarettes, beating with belts, the buckle of a belt… There was something called the refrigerator. They'd put you in it and leave you… forgive me… in your boxers, and spray you with cold water. When I was imprisoned, I also saw people dying of cold right next to me. I won't say that it was the torture; no, they died of how cold it was.
Yes, I was tortured. I was electrocuted; I was sprayed with water; I was hung from a stick and hung from my hands, with my hands tied behind my back. When I got out the last time, both of my hands were broken, my eye was swollen, and my nose was broken. I had a number of operations.
Even now, I can't imagine… I can't imagine that there are people who have the ability to do something like that. Even just thinking about it is terrifying.
I think that whoever tortures in Egypt is mentally ill. I mean, when people talk about the police needing reform… They don't need reform, they need a psychiatrist. They need to know what their job is, what a police officer's job is… the occupation of police officer. I mean, when they finish the eight or ten hours that they work, they should go back to being normal people. Normal people like you and me. Like an engineer or a doctor; like everyone else. When they get to that point, they won't want to torture.
The law should rule. No one should go into a police station and be tortured. Even thugs, or anyone else. And by the way, also in the streets; if a thief steals something in the street, I shouldn't assault them. Because there is something called police and there is something called the law. As long as there is law, I can't torture them. 
The concept of torture is tied to who has power and performs the act on someone who does not have power. If a police officer defines torture, they will never give the definition of torture. They will say, "I was interrogating them, and that is one of the stages of interrogation." It's an established means in their book. They have learned that they are above the rest and that they rule with emergency law; that it is their right to interrogate anyone at any time. It is their right, if they don't like someone, to take them and torture them in prison or in jail, to get the information they want. 
Actually, torture happens in every form, not just to the body. You know what I mean? Everyone is basically tortured psychologically in everything. People are tortured in their daily lives, in everything. They try to get their rights in any way they can, and they are tortured. They don't have to go to the prison and be tortured by a police officer or a soldier or whatever—you are tortured in your daily life.
At the beginning of the revolution, there was collective torture of people, in that when people went out to protest, they would have gas thrown on them and get shot at.
The revolution didn't change any of the psychological disorders that people have, because the revolution will never change psychological disorders. These people have to admit that they are mentally ill.
Torture is abhorrent before and after the revolution, because no one is pleased by it; no one is pleased when a person, a group, or someone imprisoned is tortured.
I don't think anything has changed since the revolution. It's the opposite—there is more torture. 
I think it has started to increase; the number of prisoners has increased, whether guilty or innocent, whether implicated in something or not. The concept of torture has become tied to the idea that I must torture in order to get the truth out of people.
You'll find that most of the revolutionaries have not been tried or anything. You find them sitting for seven months in jail. Have a look at them and you'll find out that this country basically has no law.
So, I think that the concept of torture will be rooted in people's minds for some time, and with the circumstances that we're passing through right now, after… in this stage after the January 25th Revolution, it will continue and remain deep-rooted in a very palpable way in the period to come.
There are people up until now who are tortured inside the prisons in the worst ways imaginable. There are thirty-five thousand prisoners in the prisons—girls and boys, sheikhs and children. There are more than three hundred children in prison from the demonstrations. There are more than twenty thousand sheikhs in prison from the demonstrations. There are more than ten thousand young men in prison from the demonstrations. There are still girls in prison for demonstrating. All of them are being tortured.

