TRAITOR
A traitor is supposedly someone who's in a relationship, and who has another relationship behind the first person's back.
The word traitor applies to anyone who sells their conscience or sells out the principles that they stood for. 
Traitor: a whole lot of people… everyone!
So who's a traitor? A married guy who cheats on his wife— منه للّه. Whoever got to power and sold out— منه للّه. Whoever rose up in revolution and then betrayed it—منه للّه.
Traitor is a word that's used for everyone who betrayed the revolution, their country, or the thing they stood for. Someone who betrayed a prisoner or a martyr that they promised to stick with. Someone who betrayed the principles they stood for, or the issue that they were behind.
For instance, ElBaradei comes to mind. I really like him and I really support him, but when he sold out and left the country, then came back and left again… twice… I think he betrayed the idea. 
Of course now the whole thing has gotten so much easier, in that anyone against the Army is called "traitor." I think that's when I most hear them using the word traitor.
The concept of betrayal is really bad. A shoe is better than a traitor. A shoe benefits you; the traitor doesn't benefit you, they harm you. Betrayal hurts you, kills your humanity… it kills the people.
The traitor is supposed to be the worst kind of person I can imagine, because they give military information to another country. Personally, I don't believe in the concept of nations in and of themselves, in order for me to be able to see a traitor in anything. The wars between nations, over borders, on these المفتكسة things that humans have invented—all that doesn't mean anything to me.
The people who use this word—traitor, agent, all those kinds of things… they are weak ضئيلة people, in my opinion.
By the way, the first people who did that were on the left. Among themselves, the left basically فظاع sparked the whole traitor thing. Agent, funded from abroad… that whole thing.
Whoever uses the word is one of two things. Either they know and are aware of the meaning of the word traitor, and thus it is up to them to يقدم ده للجهات القضائية take the issue to the judiciary—or, it's a curse they use for anyone, whether honorable or not. 
I have a huge problem with the idea that anyone against me gets called "traitor," "agent," or whatever else. And by the way, this is going on with everyone, not some specific people. Everyone calls others traitors.
It happened and will continue happening, because people who weren't talking, who didn't open their mouths, who weren't able to say anything, are now starting to talk these days. You have to listen—you've been socially, economically, and educationally مجرف for forty years… in everything… so everything has reached a state of  حالة مزرية. You've got to listen to it. Why? Because people have had the obstacle of silence lifted from their mouths. They'll talk and talk… and they'll say things worse than that by a lot. What you need to do is reject it… the … الطليعة دي، المستنيرة اللي زيك… you have to tell people who is supposed to be called a traitor and who isn't.

 

