TRANSITIONAL PERIOD
There were two transitional periods: the time when Tantawi governed just until another President came, and then he turned power over. The second transitional period was after Morsi's rule, when Adly Mansour ruled—right now. He's also here as, like, a guise, until El-Sisi comes to take power and become President.
We say transitional period, transitional period, transitional period… since the days of Hosni Mubarak. SCAF: transitional period. Morsi: transitional period. From Morsi to El-Sisi: transitional period. It's all one. 
The transitional period was a retaliatory period, not a transitional one—the one in Tantawi's days. Nothing was achieved in it at all.
It's just a name: transitional period.
The first elections for Hosni Mubarak—1981—that was really a transitional period. You hear about Sufi Abu Taleb, who controlled the country for two weeks. He was head of Parliament. That was a real transitional period.
How many transitional periods have we had till now that didn't really happen, that weren't enforced?
We've been in a transitional period for three years. I don't know when the transitional period will end, except when I leave Egypt!
Maybe there are some people who think that to a certain extent the transitional period will finally end when we have an elected President and an elected Parliament. But really we have to fix ourselves first. The people who went out to protest and at the end of the day threw stones at soldiers and that kind of thing… When you throw a stone, you're defending yourself, but if you came to have clashes and go home, who does that benefit? Do you get your rights? As soon as Morsi became president, I didn't go out to protests. Not because I was happy with him, but because the atmosphere of the protests changed. They became negative—very negative. You have to go out in support of something, not because you are against something. And the goals for social justice, bread, and freedom were lost—no one remembered them. Who has taken the idea of the goals of the revolution, and tried to achieve them on the ground?