TRIAL
That's like the revolution… if there's a president in control of the country, and doesn't know how to take care of it, he gets put on trial.
In the trial of the former regime—generally, Mubarak's regime—he got twenty-five years. But that's not a fair sentence; he should have gotten the death sentence. We would say, "Revolutionary trial," not a trial like those games they play. Was that even a trial? Fuck! We said, "Revolutionary trial," which means the execution of all the heat of the former regime in a public square.
Why did they slaughter Saddam on the eve of Eid? Why did they do that? Well, Mubarak neglected us for thirty-three years and خيب بختنا. Do you know what خيب بختنا means? It means he neglected us; like, he hurt us more that Saddam. You know, if you إنت لو تطخ بني آدم تريحه، توديه يعدي يتحاسب مع ربنا؟. But what Mubarak did was like… like, he spent thirty years giving us injections, stuff to snort, heroin, cocaine, drugs, and Tramadol, you know? He got us all addicted. Everyone is addicted to him.
Hosni Mubarak and his whole former regime, as soon as they were taken out of power, should have gone on military trial.
And every one who's unjust should have the same thing done to them—the right thing.
What happened is that Mubarak was put on civilian trial, and he got twenty-five years. El-Adly got around thirty years or so. El-Adly was basically in charge of the entire police—the police who killed Khaled Said, who charged him with possession of weed.
Up till now—I mean, just so we know… Mubarak is still being tried up till now.
I mean, it's basically political whoring. They tried the Muslim Brothers before they tried the felool of the 25th. It's all the same; it's all the corrupt judiciary.
There are a lot of circumstances I've lived through, and I've found that the Egyptian judiciary is always with the oppressor. عمره ما نصف المظلوم أبدا. What we're living through now… the arrests of our friends who haven't done anything at all, those who've been held for nine or twenty months…
Of course, as they say, justice is the basis of governance. Obviously, if there's no justice, there's no governance; no president will be able to control things without just governance of his people. So, one of the most important things that needs to be fixed is the judiciary.