A new word in the Arabic language: Brotherhoodization.
Brotherhoodization. Brotherhoodization of the State. I heard this word as soon as Morsi came to power.
They used it in the most recent period. It's a really new word; I've never heard it except recently. 
Brotherhoodization is a word I've known for quite a long time, because of what happened in Sudan.
The expression spread after the Brotherhood came to power.
We said from the beginning that they were corrupt people.
All in all, I was one of the people who elected Morsi, because we didn't have any other choice. We had Ahmed Shafik, and we had Morsi. So we asked ourselves, "Who's closer to us? Morsi and them are going to get us our demands." At least the Brotherhood went out with us on January 28th; we figured they'd seen what we'd seen. This way or that, they were tortured in the prisons, so they'd get the revolution's demands. But what happened was the complete opposite, because the Brotherhood sought power but they pretty much didn't know how to govern. That's Brotherhoodization.
Brotherhoodization means that Morsi brotherhoodized the state—he brought the Muslim Brotherhood to power, right? That's what's meant by the word; that's what it's trying to get across to me.
We started to read the word Brotherhoodization in the press and hear it in the media: the attempt to change the state and its components to a huge Brotherhood organization. Meaning that the Brotherhood organization would be the State.
I have to know the value of the country I'm governing! You don't know the map of this State? It's got to be one of two things: either you don't know the map of your own country, or you are something else.
I heard it from the media—the corrupt media that defends Mubarak and says that there's fun in Tahrir Square. I feel like the media is trying to trick me when they talk about it, when they say that Morsi is Brotherhoodizing. Because the Brotherhood removed someone corrupt from their position, they say, "That's Brotherhoodization of the State." With time, I discovered that there was no Brotherhoodization or anything at all. It was an illusory thing; it had no foundation; it wasn't accurate.
Brotherhoodization of the State did happen in Sudan. It happened in 1989, when there was an existing government and a military coup, and the Muslim Brotherhood started to take control of the State. They took a long, long time: twenty-five years. What happened throughout those twenty-five years is that they sort of started to get inside all of the State institutions. For example, they created something like a civilian police. Like, they took a group of civilians, gave them weapons, and gave them the same rank as an officer. So, there were civilians protecting those in power. Then, something appeared in the military called popular defense, which was a militia belonging to the Brotherhood. So there was a state within the State, with all its institutions; an army within the Army, police within the police, a state within a state. The whole thing was very complex. Even all the artists started to be Brotherhood. That's the path they always take—suddenly. If that happened in Egypt, it would be a bigger problem.
They started to get members of the Brotherhood to take all of the different positions in the State; they put them in important positions in the State.
It happened in the culture field, at the time when Abdel Aziz was the Culture Minister. He hired five Brotherhood members. There were five employees inside the Culture Ministry, while the Secretariat, which is not part of the Ministry, was also from the Freedom and Justice Party. And these people were going to Brotherhoodize.
You know they also want the sensitive positions in the big companies, like the Electric Company. They put them in the Petrol Company, they put them in whatever other company. I stand before God today and attest that I look to these leaders who are in these sensitive positions and ministries, like the media and the police and, and, and… they want to take everything. How much else do they want?! Egypt was gonna be sold off!
Their solution was a really strange idea. They wanted to confine the deep state within a deep state. This term came out of that. They wanted to take out the deep state, that thing—Mubarak's regime and the military regime—with elements of the Brotherhood. That is Brotherhoodization of the State: a different shape for the deep state.
When at a certain point the Army intervenes to end a certain situation, you know the situation isn't good. People went out and spoke up on the June 30th Revolution. They spoke up and said, "We don't want this guy." The Army had to intervene. In that situation, when the Army knows that there's agitation, you know something's up. 
In Egypt, that was the thing that most frightened me: the Brotherhood government. Maybe the word Brotherhoodization is a word that people who are against the Brotherhood use. It is of course a terrifying word, but it's very appropriate propaganda. 
The Brotherhood is a bad scheme—a scheme with the smell of corruption. It smells like they're fighting Egypt; they don't want Egypt to be good. Obviously it's something like that. If you really had something good inside you, if you really wanted something good for Egypt, God wouldn't have taken you down so quickly. These people—God took them down!