VIRGINITY TEST
Before the revolution, virginity tests were something families did to their daughters. After the revolution, they were something used politically, in order to crush the girls who were going out.
After the January 25th Revolution, we heard that there were virginity tests. They were one of the really difficult things I found in Tahrir Square—the worst thing after the January 25th Revolution. Worse than death. In death, a person's life is lost, but with virginity tests, girls lose their feminine human dignity.
Certainly, virginity tests are wrong in and of themselves, in that they test the girls. It's not within their rights at all. 
Virginity tests are one of the ugliest things that happened. The idea itself… that you search for the virginity of people… it was, for us, something very vile… that someone decides to see if she is a virgin or not, even if they are doing it so that no one can come out later and say that something was done to her inside.
They're a kind of harassment. And whether or not the girl is a virgin or not has nothing to do with anything except our own society. It's just a way of planting the seed of terror in girls, just like harassment—except it's practiced by specific authorities.
They happened on April 8th in the Egyptian Museum, at the hand of El-Sisi. He led the battalions that were in the Egyptian Museum.
The incident was on March 9th.
There was a sit-in. The Square was open, but the sit-in was happening in the garden at the center. Then the military police came, and the girls and women were the ones who stopped the officers. I remember the scene because I was afraid of the Red Beret… I'm not afraid of soldiers, but if it's military police, I'm really, really scared. At the time, I was about to go into the Army, and I knew how powerful that person was. It's not just what I expected, it's what I knew he could do! Really, suddenly the demographic automatically switched—the men were kind of scared, and the women went and stood in front of the sit-in… the girls stopped him and cursed at him, and they cursed at everyone, "All of you get out of here!" — "You are thugs!" — "You stole the revolution," — "SCAF," — and, "Down with the military regime!" That sort of thing. They disappeared for a second, and came back. They cleared the sit-in and they took those girls and gave them virginity tests. It was in the Museum. Their cowardice was also a response to the women who mocked them. They were all prestige and Red Beret and what-not, and the women mocked them in the Square, so they took their revenge on them.
When the girls were being taken, I saw them being taken. A lot of people saw them being taken, and whoever spoke up was taken with them. By the way, any girl who is taken… any young woman who is taken by the Army has a virginity test done. It happens! And the soldiers stand and watch. 
People who came out of there testified to the atrocity inside. The idea was that they stood them up facing each other, and there were people and soldiers passing by while the door was open, and people were taking video.
Everything in the 2011 Revolution up till now… all of the incidents get closer and closer to you. It didn't happen to you, but it could happen to you.
It's one of the most terrifying things in my life—that something like that could happen to me, something like a virginity test. Using things like that is very serious, in that you break someone, because you don't know how to break them any other way.
But it's not an insult to the girl, by the way, more than it is an insult to them.
For me, it's one of the primary things that determines what it is to be a girl in the revolution. Because they don't screw you alone—they screw you and your family and your friends, your father and your aunt… everyone. You are used as a means of coercion. Your presence in the street means that you are responsible not only for yourself but for your family as well. 
For me, the girls who were subjected to virginity tests are some of the icons of the revolution.
Of course, Samira is the most famous one—the one who fought against the virginity tests and took a case to court and that stuff. The officer was found innocent. We found out how things go: "Shut up!" and Samira shut up. Where is Samira now? God knows. 
The virginity tests weren't just on Samira Ibrahim. The virginity tests happened at the time of the gang rapes and harassment in Tahrir. When an ambulance came to take a girl, they did a virginity test on her. That happened! I mean, the ambulances were taking a girl who'd been raped so they'd test her.
They're still around now. And rape in the precincts happens. Everything is happening. Virginity tests are happening and they will keep happening. As long as we are dogs… as long as we are silent.
It's torture. All of it falls under torture, and all of it confirms that we don't have justice and we don't have human rights. We have nothing, you know?
The virginity tests were the worst thing that happened under SCAF, who tested girls' virginity. It never happened in the world or anywhere, but our Army did it. They tested the girls. It's a shameful thing, that they did anything like that, and it is recorded in history against them.
The Army wasn't even shy about admitting to it. They said it as though it were totally normal, as though it were natural, and of course that shows that the Army doesn't even know what women are. I mean, the people in the military institution deal with women as though they are completely different creatures, and that also shows that the military cannot rule because there are people in society that they don't even know exist. They don't know how to deal with them.
They are actually the kings. They live the role of kings, in that this is their land and we are their subjects, and they are allowed to take any of us and really do whatever they want.
The virginity tests showed people the true SCAF.
It was clear that they wanted to take a different path. They wanted to defile people—the girls of the revolution. They wanted to convince us that those girls were not revolutionaries, that they had no ideology, and no belief in the revolution or anything. They wanted to say that they were lowlifes with no values, headed to hell and taking the revolution to hell with them. It's clear that we're not going to buy any of that. We won't buy any of it, even though every so often they come up with things like that. We're on a different path, and we have no need for yours.