VOID
I took a class in college on Arabic cinema, and we watched the film "The Land." It think it was in the film "The Land" that they said, "Void." I knew words like that, but they didn't have any meaning. Suddenly, they had a personal meaning, a meaning I had lived. We would oppose and say, "Void! Void!" — "The Parliament is void!" — "The Constitution is void!" — "These laws are void!" Suddenly, it wasn't empty.
For me, a void thing is something that doesn't move… that doesn't move forward. Someone who stays in place, a stuck place. A law that doesn't do anything or benefit anyone, that doesn't have any effect on anything or anyone around it. No one enforces it. Like, it isn't necessary so it's void.
Void is what you call anything, anyone, or any institution that seeks a particular objective that isn't in the country's interest. An evil thing, something that serves a personal interest—those are the sort of things that we call void.
Anything built on something void is void. The President of the Republic today is built on something void to begin with, because I think it was a military coup from start to finish. I don't know really. Everything that is happening now is void. And I have to say that the elections were void.
El-Sisi is void. Isn't the game supposed to be played by the law now? The law of elections; the people choose. The rulers… The people are the rulers. And then as a president I work for the people. I come to serve them, to help them and to fulfill their demands. I don't come with a tank. He is void; he came with a tank, he came with weapons, so he is void. 
Everything that happens is void upon void: illegitimate and immoral. It may be that what is immoral is illegitimate; it may be that what is immoral is illegitimate; and, it may be that what is legitimate is immoral. But in the end, it's all void. What's happening in the streets is void, what's happening to the people is void, what the people do to each other is void, what the media does to El-Sisi is void, what the media does to the Brotherhood is void, and so on, and so on. 
