WHEEL OF PRODUCTION
Wheel of production is a word that originated after the revolution, a word that says: "We don't want demonstrations, we don't want marches, and we don't want sit-ins, so that the wheel of production can turn."
It's a concept related to labor and the economic entities in the country. When people came out and revolted, social justice was among their demands. In one way or another, social justice is related to the wheel of production.
Wheel of production is a mythical word made up by the regime right after the revolution. It was never said before the revolution—we never heard it—but it started to be used after the revolution in the context of: "Oh Egyptians! Our economy is collapsing!"
The people in power are the ones who use it the most. I mean, it's a word used more by politicians than by regular citizens. After Mubarak resigned, we came upon the period of SCAF rule, and they would talk about the wheel of production and the need to return the wheel of production to labor again. President Mohamed Morsi talked about the wheel of production, too. Even after Morsi was deposed, the politicians who now rule made the concept more famous. Plus the media, who suddenly became the ones who talk about the wheel of production the most: "The wheel of production must continue."
The wheel of production is always in all of their talk about the Egyptian economy: "We have to create a wheel of production." "We have to push the wheel of production." "Everyone has to push." Even the term "wheel" itself has started to annoy people. Everything is wheel, wheel, wheel…
Wheel of production is a term imposed by the capitalists, or the investors, to keep the system as it is.  They use it to stop sit-ins, to stop demonstrations, to demand that people stop being in the Square. Let us return to the wheel of production. That was their argument; that our economy was declining, our economy was collapsing, or whatever else.
We've been hearing that our economy is declining and collapsing for three years now. We've been hearing that after a couple of months we aren't going to find anything to eat. At the same time, it's been three years and the economy hasn't collapsed or anything.
Yeah, it's been three or four years and the economy hasn't collapsed…a total collapse, as they say. On the contrary, it's collapsing now, right? Because for three years we haven't focused on the foundations of a sound state, it's collapsing!
There are people who have been damaged, but why have they been damage? Because the people who invented the word wheel of production pulled their money out of the market and the stock exchange, and closed their companies and factories. Not because there's no work, no, but because they want to put financial pressure on the street, so the people will bow down to them and thus end the revolution. Or at least put a stop to the marches and demonstrations. They smuggled their money out of Egypt without any central monitoring of accounts, without any device entrusted by the state to monitor these people, and without any monitoring from the Central Bank of Egypt.
And they still succeeded. They succeeded. Why did they succeed? Because unfortunately, the wealth in Egypt is concentrated amongst a very tiny percentage of people. The people that don't have political awareness and who also don't have the means to hold out for a very long time will be persuaded by the word wheel of production. They won't find anything to eat, they'll hear the word in the media, and they will stay at home and stop demanding their rights.
When SCAF wanted to silence the revolutionaries in Tahrir Square, they said to them, "Let the wheel of production turn." And the illusion is that Tahrir has the keys to the Egyptian economy, so if there are thousands in the Square, the wheel of production stops. As though the Square was full of factories and full of hotels, full, full…
I remember the taxi drivers used to say, "Take the people out of there!" and name any square. They'd say, "The wheel of production has stopped," or whatever, and you'd feel like there was a pause button somewhere in the middle of the square and somebody had accidentally stepped on it, and they don't know where it is exactly so they don't want anyone there in case someone steps on it and presses it. This wheel of production, we don't know how it works or why and all that, but it's clear that it stops when someone presses that  button over there somewhere in the grass. So now they've removed all the grass and they're searching for the pause button that's somewhere in the middle of the Square, but they haven't found it so they're putting the grass back.
Wheel of production is a made-up word espoused to suppress the opposition by the hand of the citizens themselves. They were tightening the yoke on the common people.
You mean that you're saying to the very same people—the very same people who can't find work, who don't have their rights, who spend their day in bread lines, tortured and unable to afford public transportation—you're really, truly saying to those people, "Wheel of production?!"
The word's become a scarecrow for anyone who tries to express their opinion, anyone who attempts to talk about their freedom. You tell them they're stopping the wheel of production. And the choice of a big word, a grandiloquent word, it's the choice of politicians at the highest level: people who are able to make a big show in order to get the idea across that the wheel of production is extremely important to us and it cannot stop. 
So what is the wheel of production?
I don't even know what it means. I haven't touched it, I haven't seen it, so I can't say what it is.
I used to think that it was a machine in a factory. I always hear it on Labor Day, I hear on that day that the production is working so we've got this, we've made that.
I've never understood what this phrase means, since there started to be this idea that we change the regime and that there be a revolution or something. I don't know what the wheel of production is. I mean, what is it?
It's the most important thing needed for the country to pass through the transitional phase. The wheel of production has to turn. For the wheel of production to turn, we have to offer a lot of work to the youth, because the youth are the ones who will turn it. Not that the youth will work and put the money in their pockets, but that they will labor by their sweat and take their right at the end of the month by their sweat, and from that do something for the State.
Those who work in the shops in the street, in the workshops, who work anywhere, don't push the wheel of production. So, I've never understood the word.
The meaning of the word wheel of production is the propulsion of national production or the national economy, consisting of my support for something called the government, my support for something called building state projects and small projects for the State. It's that I contribute in a significant way towards building my State, not towards building other entities inside my State.
The wheel of production has stopped because of corruption, because of theft. You have a whole lot of things that need to return for the wheel of production, and we aren't one of them. It's not like when the people shut up and stop protesting and demonstrating, the wheel will turn.
We don't have a wheel of production. It's stolen, looted. Where's the wheel of production when I'm giving one guy three million pounds and one guy three hundred pounds, and another guy nothing at all?! How are university graduates sitting at coffee shops while someone totally unqualified is working just because he has connections? People are going out every day to get twenty or thirty pounds by any means, by theft or deception, by doing anything, taking any job, offering themselves up for anything just to get some money and pay for the home, the wife, the kids. We are always worse off. There is no wheel of production.
Is there even a product at all for there to be a wheel of production? I mean, where is the product in order for a wheel to turn, in order to make something that we can live by? There is no product. We are living with everything coming from abroad and from China. This rosary is from China! There is no product for there to be a wheel.
There is no wheel of production: all of our commercial activity is consumer activity. What wheel of production when all of your commercial activity is buildings and facilities? The State doesn't even do anything about infrastructure. The infrastructure has gone to hell. What wheel of production when the country imports beans where it used to produce them? Perhaps the tray that you put at the top of the shisha is the only thing made in Egypt…and the plastic bowls for kushari, as I've read. We basically import garbage! We import garbage…garbage. Where's the factory here so that there's a wheel of production? Where's the wheel of production?!
How am I going to be able to turn the wheel of production when all the mineral resources and energy resources in Egypt are monopolized by foreign corporations? The fundamental reason for the inflation of the price of any production in the world today is energy and energy resources. If I'm looking for the true wheel of production, I have to nationalize all the energy resources in the country, return them to the citizen…to the country. And that was supposed to be one of the true revolutionary decisions that would invest from beginning to end in the interest of the citizen.
If you really want to do something for the youth, take their money and make something called The Development Bank for Egypt's Youth. If every young person paid five hundred pounds, you would find huge amounts coming in. Yes, it will be difficult for me, but when I pay five hundred pounds, as an engineer I will be able to build, and I will know that the factory belongs to me. I won't work in the factory for a month or two, no. It belongs to me and I pay money for it. Rather than dragging myself to work, I'll go and love the work because it belongs to me, not to the government or to someone else. It's a beautiful solution, if the government bought into it and gave us the land, gave the youth the land, maybe the factory would bring them two million. You'll see after that, you won't find youth in the street and you won't find any demonstrations, you won't find any of that.
I would allow the worker in the factory to own shares in the factory. I would get the businessman I have in the State, and rather than selling him the organization, I'll tell him: "No, come manage it and take forty percent of the shares." Or fifty, whatever percentage he's willing to take. In that way, he's a partner in the factory's profits, he's a partner in the factory and in the organization where he works. The worker will produce very seriously, and pay taxes to the State. From there will be the true wheel of production. 
Find me a national project: new roads, pipelines, bridges, a solution for traffic congestion, subways. These things could really make the wheel of production turn. And no one is doing anything.
I hope that the government will listen to something like this. We presented it, in the days of Morsi. We went and by chance we sat with Morsi himself. We presented it and we went back more than ten times. Every time we went, Mohamed Morsi's secretary would come to the door and say, "Goodness! What a nice project you have!" Bit by bit, we were tired out. Finally we learned that these people came not to serve the country, but to serve their personal interest. The second thing was Adly Mansour: we presented it once or twice, but we couldn't get any feedback because we started to see the State crumble. There was no time for the youth or anything else, because that government was under a lot of pressure. Because of that, we didn't present it again.
When we come to look at it more closely, the wheel of production that they are getting at is the wheel that turns by sucking the blood of the youth, and their status as plastic bags traded by men of business and finance. That's what's meant by wheel of production in Egypt. Most of the youth work between ten and twelve hours a day, and in the end they earn no more than what can barely sustain one person with a poor social status in the face of high prices. All of that means that the wheel of production, that they say is a fake wheel, interferes with people in the normal framework of a thieving State.
The wheel of production was just something for the State to take hold of and say to the poor, hardworking people, "Keep surviving." Because most of the workers in Egypt are day workers who live hand to mouth, and thus the crushed classes surrender to the pressures of life, unable to continue their struggle for freedom and justice. They say, "I want to live! We want the country to keep going; we want the wheel of production to keep going." It comes from their hunger, because ultimately, they will go hungry! I mean, their stomachs are growling, they can't!
