WORLD BANK LOAN
World Bank Loan means that we're gonna take a loan from the bank… money from the bank.
The best and greatest thing in the world is for a person to depend completely on themselves. We shouldn't take a loan from anyone; we shouldn't owe anyone.
I'm taken aback when I hear World Bank Loan; it's a terrible concept.
There's the World Bank and there's the IMF—they give loans to economically unstable countries. It's controlled by capitalist countries; countries who have colonial tendencies. Their stipulations are always a bitter medicine. They want to raise taxes, they want to raise prices, they want to decrease government expenditures on services for the people.
I remember they mostly talked about it during the time of Muslim Brotherhood rule I remember that there was graffiti of a bomb and a World Bank Loan, and it was written, "A World Bank Loan is an impoverishment loan."
The World Bank Loan really bothers me, because we have enough in our natural environment to live like kings, for each of us to take care of ourselves and more, thank God— if we really used our resources well. Because Egypt is prosperous, and everyone knows it, but the people of Egypt don't benefit from that prosperity at all.
The country is full of resources, and especially human resources to grow and develop and to rely on ourselves. I work at Borg El Arab and I get there on the highway—I see the land on both sides, and I say, "We can't possibly have a problem with housing!"
If we got water and electricity to that area, if we divided it well between people and built services on it—a hospital, a school, and stuff—people would build and live there.
There are a lot of countries that succeeded without them—countries that resemble ours, like Malaysia and the South Asian countries that they call the Tigers—they all succeeded without World Bank Loans.
Like, they have conditions—we become members and they pay us a share. They have conditions that you make internal reforms… and those internal reforms might come at expense of the poor. It could lead to a popular revolution. That's what they want. The colonial states want a popular revolution from inside, to fragment and destroy the country.
A World Bank Loan will send the country to hell. One of the World Bank Loan conditions—from what I've read, I mean—is to reduce or remove social welfare. When you remove social welfare in order to take the World Bank Loan, it means that you destroy a lot of people's lives; a lot of people will become beggars. They won't be able to get gas or bread or any of those things at all. You can't do that right now, because a lot of people live by begging, by taking loans and welfare, and without it they'll be homeless.
The best thing for us is to forget about the World Bank Loan. If we had taken it at the time, we'd be stuck with it for some years, you know what I mean? We would have still been paying it off, and it wouldn't have done anything at all.



