YOUTH
Our greatest strength is our youth.
The informed youth are stronger than the Muslim Brothers, stronger than the Islamists, stronger than the police and stronger than the Army. They were stronger than anyone. They were stronger than the President, and stronger than the state. It’s great that they have clear minds, and they are the country’s hope.
Before the revolution, the youth were oppressed. They couldn’t get married, couldn’t get work, couldn’t get housing. They couldn’t get anything, and they were frustrated. So when the revolution happened, they said, 
“The country is going to be fixed, and we’ll get work, and whoever’s not already married will get married. Everything’s going to be fixed and it’ll be better than before the revolution.”
The youth who rose up, rose up from all the pressure and the frustration inside them. They rose up to express their freedom, to say that we are the youth of Egypt and no ruler can rule us, because we really are Pharaohs and no one can stop us. 
Of course, the youth were the fuel of the 25 January revolution, and they are the vanguard of the future.
As I see it, this revolution was a revolution of youth. The youth are the ones who went out and moved the stagnant waters of the last 30 years.
After the revolution…after the revolution succeeded and Mubarak left, nothing happened. They returned to the way they were, and their frustration increased. 
Unfortunately, the youth didn’t get any rights from that shift.
We tried. In the end, they cursed us in the media and that was it. We’re the ones who destroyed the country, we’re the ones who made it this way.
At one point the media held up some of the youth, then after a while it brought them back down again. That’s it. I mean how can you tell me that the youth are the backbone of any state, that the state is propped up by the youth and that’s a good thing and stuff…all that talk and then you insult me, you arrest me, and you kill me as a young man.
We took far too many steps behind the youth, and the results weren’t positive. It’s a revolution of youth but it isn’t organized. If it were more organized, if they had organized themselves around one thing, there would have been more results. The children of Egypt came from all different leanings; they didn’t reach a coherent understanding.
We exchange accusations with our kids. They say that we ruined the revolution, and we say to them that you didn’t rise up to the occasion as you should have. They thought that we shouldn’t have gone out on 30 June and said to the Army, 
“Be with us so we can get rid of the Muslim Brothers.” 
There was no guarantee with the Muslim Brothers and we couldn’t stop them because we are peaceful and they are not. That’s clear now anyway, that a lot of people would have died. I say to my kids,
“There were things you needed to do that you didn’t do. Like you just sat around saying, ‘You ruined the revolution!’” 
etc etc etc and you stopped at that. So what’s your part in it?!
The youth who don’t go to vote and don’t want to state their opinion—who didn’t go, who stayed silent, who left the elders to it and then sit around accusing the elders: 
Do your part! 
When you do your part, go out and state your opinion, and then nothing happens, then you can talk.
In a little bit of time, I’d say maybe 10 years, if there’s a climate with a bit less corruption, and the youth can get work, we’ll see Egypt in a very good place. Follow that with another twenty years, and we’ll get to the same place that European countries are in. But unfortunately the youth need to be enabled, and corruption has to be set aside a little bit.
Now you say to yourself, 
“I haven’t got any more hope that the revolution will achieves its goals, except when the useless generation is ripped to shreds and the new generation comes.”
I don’t think that youth is about age. It’s about people with free, enlightened minds. You can find someone who is forty years old but who goes to Tahrir Square, so the word youth doesn’t necessarily mean a young age.
As long as you’re living life, you’re still learning. As long as you’re learning, you still have spirit, and you have to use it. As long as you’re still thinking, you should fight for your ideas, stand beside them. If you’re convinced by something, you’ll make it happen, no matter what your age.
I see older people going out in marches and demonstrations. There’s a lot of older people there. My mother still goes. I respect her for that, because she goes to fight for what she believes.
