For me, before the revolution, bullets were like a nuclear explosion. I thought it was like, "Oh my God! No way will I ever get close to them or want them near me." But at the same time, it's like something I didn't know at all, so it seemed very scary. You know when there's a little monster but its shadow on the wall is huge? For me, bullets were something like that.
Before the revolution, I might have known as a sort of general knowledge that there was a difference between live fire and blanks. But after the revolution, my awareness of them is different because I got to know them. You'd be standing somewhere and hear the sound of shots next to you, and you'd know if it was a stone; you'd know if it was live fire; you'd know if it was a rubber bullet; and, you'd know if it was just a blank. You'd know if it was a بلي or a pellet or whatever. You'd know because you heard them a lot, and you focused on them.
It makes a difference to me where the bullet is coming from, and who fired it.
Bullets, from the beginning of the revolution: bullets everywhere in the Square. You'd hear the sound of shots fired but you didn't know where it was coming from. The number of bullets that we saw and heard in Mohamed Mahmoud! Emad Effat was hit by a bullet. The bullet was the way the police made you appear to be a bad guy—a traitor who wants the country to crumble.
The bullet: I know a lot of people who were hit by bullets in recent times—by the police.
I don't know why, but I feel like the word bullet is like a تار between the people and the police. People hate the police because of bullets.
Bullets are the thing that angered the youth the most in the revolution, and angered a lot of people. They're the reason a lot of people died, because we were hit by bullets and we just died like that, as if we were… as if we weren't human beings; as if we weren't living at all.
Bullets are for when you go up against an armed group, but not when you're going to clear a sit-in or going to clear a university or whatever. You can't use bullets. Leave the bullets for the criminals and… and the… and the terrorists and people like that. A bullet is a difficult thing. These are people's souls. I mean, there are many, many, many martyrs and they increase every day, from the revolution up till now. I think that we've started to become like Algeria: the country of a million martyrs.
Right, it brings up questions about how easy it is for human beings to die. There's no benefit at all when three-quarters of the people who die in the world die from bullets and worthless things like someone whose mind's screwed up and decides to, like, come kill you.
The word bullet has become totally normal in this country, like someone saying to you, "I want to eat some nuts." Bullets are just like nuts. Children are talking about bullets and gunfire and gunshots; children are talking about who was shot, who got killed, and the shells that were thrown on the ground. No one talks like they used to, "This country is good. We've seen something good in this country." Now we see people shot and killed. Every day on the news we aren't even phased when we find out that three or four people were killed. It's not something strange; it's like we're watching Good Morning Egypt.
I basically feel like I've gotten ten years older. Honestly. All of our lives we've heard about injustice and we've witnessed it, but we've never lived like this—soaked in it, you know? You know, anyone who tells me anything that happened before the last three years, I'm like, "What!" Honestly, I don't remember! Everything has changed, and I myself have changed.
After the revolution, the bullet has gotten to be like everything else in the world; I mean, it's just like crossing the street. Because after the revolution, the concept of death has changed for me. I'm not scared. I stopped being really scared of bullets. I'm ready to die now. I have nothing to stop me.