The Camel Battle was something that happened in the revolution, on February 2nd.
They sent out what are called the followers of the National Democratic Party (NDP), or those who supported Mubarak's rule at that time. They sent them out to clear the protests—to clear them out and force those who were in Tahrir to leave.
I had no idea that one day I would see something like that happen in the streets of Egypt—that people would think to send out a group of horses and camels to attack people and make them leave.
A whole lot of things describe the Camel Battle: death, blood, betrayal, inhumanity, a stupid regime.
The night before the Camel Battle was the highest point of human civilization that any human could witness—not just in their own country, but anywhere in the world. People were really nice to each other. They were ready to see anything and not be weirded out. They respected differences and that was it. I mean, I don't know how something like that happened. And then people came in with camels and swords like in old movies. That's really what happened; we went back five hundred years in the space of a night.
The Camel Battle was a very strange day, sort of like the movies—like Braveheart and things like that.
We said, "That's it, ok, good night. We're going to die today." We said, "That's it, we'll die and people will go out the next day in a large number. They'll see the sacrifice we made, and they'll go out. The whole thing will change after that."
Pretty much all of us were injured. I had five stitches in my face; one of my friends got three in his head; and, a lot of things like that.
In the midst of all that violence, there was a feeling that will never return—like, that we were really standing together, and that we would die together, no problem. We were not afraid of anything… of course, we were a bit afraid, but we were ready to die. We had no problem with the whole thing. People were dying around us—no big thing. When someone fell, if their head broke open we would wash it with some water; they'd go have it sewn up and come back again. There was a feeling like utopia, and it reached its highest point at that time, in that we were able to work together very well at a time like that. That was one of the best things.
At the time, the Square belonged to us. When the camels and other stuff came, when they arrived at the end of Qasr al-Nil where it comes into Tahrir, they came in and attacked people. So many people were injured, but we still pulled them out and saved them.
When they came and assaulted us and we assaulted them and made them leave, more people went out and people were not afraid. People saw that they wanted to make us leave, so they knew that we were right. It was a good thing for the revolution. Well yeah, there were people who fell, there were martyrs and people who died—God have mercy on them and God willing their rights will come—but it was a good thing for the revolution that we found out that there were people against us who didn't want the revolution to succeed. We continued and the revolution succeeded, thank God.
I mean, the Camel Battle is number one in the success of the revolution.
Man, the Camel Battle was a ruse. It was a real thing, but at the same time it was a ruse. The media used it to deceive people in every possible way. They used it as a scapegoat, to tell people that the revolution still existed, and to tell them that they found out at the end of the day—go figure—that the Muslim Brotherhood was behind all these massacres, and on and on and on.
There were two players: the NDP and its people, and the Brotherhood, which rode the whole thing a bit… just a bit. لما كان بيقع واحد مننا، من البلطجية كان بيقع واحد تاني من الإخوان، When one of us fell, from the thugs also fell one of the Muslim Brothers, so they could increase the whole thing a bit. We saw that with our own eyes, but we said, "It's protecting us."
Obviously, the Camel Battle was planned, and obviously, the Army was monitoring everything. The Army was an accomplice and was protecting the battle. The Army was there; I saw them on video. I saw the Army standing by Maspero while the camels and horses entered Tahrir Square. داخلين الناس داخلة سيقاها They let people in and the Army stood there protecting them, standing there with their tanks. If they were really protecting the revolutionaries and they knew it was a revolution, they would've stopped them from coming in. Where was military intelligence? Where was State Security? Wasn't State Security working?
Honestly, the Camel Battle was the work of a lot of people: felool, members of the NDP in Abdeen, Sayeda Zainab, and Sayeda Aisha, the Muslim Brotherhood… the work of a lot of people who participated. So you can't identify who the originator was—who precipitated the whole thing.
I'm a million percent certain that the Brotherhood and felool had a hand in it—the NDP, the businessmen who said, "Our interests are being threatened."
The Camel Battle is a mystery. Even today, still no one knows what happened. God knows if the thugs that belong to the police did it, or if it was the Muslim Brotherhood, or a ninth hand did it. We don't know. Like, that's just it; it happened and people just died for nothing.
In truth, if there's a lesson to be learned from the Camel Battle, it's that the Army's tanks didn't move. They stood in their place; they didn't do anything to protect the protesters from the thugs. That's the only thing we're sure of.
It's still mysterious for me now. I don't know what its point was, or who was behind it. I still don't know how it ended… how it ended with all those dead people. There's no complete truth up till now.


