THE CHAIR
The chair is power, right?
The chair is a really fun thing. Like, anyone who sits on it has a lot of fun.
The chair changes a human being.
As soon as anyone who yearns to reach the chair gets to sit on it, they forget the promises they made and start to work for their personal interests—for the people they know, and for their followers.
The chair changes whoever sits on it; it forces things on them that they might not have accepted before they sat on it. I mean, they have regulations and things that limit the freedom of their decisions. 
The chair is bad, whether it's the chair of a president, a minister, or even the chair of a civil servant. When the lowest civil servant in a government interest sits on the chair, they are changed.
Well, what did they start out as? They're just human beings, and any human being has their interests. Everyone's like that. The first thing they think of is themselves. They know they will be there for a certain time—four years. They'll come and go. They have to have intellect and awareness, and they have to be nationalists—they have to love their country. I won't say they have to hate themselves, but they can take care of themselves as well as the people.
Take a look at the people in the revolution. هو كان في رئيس محجم الناس، جاب المجموعة دي وراح حط عليها إيه؟ قمقم. جاب الناس دي حط عليها قمقم.  Humans are like that. When they're trapped and tortured, when they're crushed and crushed, when they're humiliated, you make them hate you. You make them hate the country. Because of that, there are spies and traitors. Because of that, when the people revolted they lit cars and government buildings on fire, they looted the shops, and everything was stolen.
I want to be president. First of all, before anything else, I will give everything that belongs to the State that makes a profit to the people. If it's a piaster, if it's less, I will give it to the citizens. Fair distribution of wealth! I'll make people… I'll make them feel they own the Suez Canal. I'll make them feel they own the Corniche they walk on. I'll make they feel they own all the amenities. Anything that belongs to the State, belongs to them.
As long as you're sitting behind the desk, you'll forget the people outside completely, and you'll find yourself beginning to do wrong by them. You'll find yourself departing from the work you were hired to do—from the very reason you're sitting in the chair. Don't get used to the chair. Get up, move around, see how the people live so that you can be in touch with them and their problems. Don't forget them.
الكرسي ده مش دايم لحد إن شاء الله، ما دايم إلا وجه الله.  هو مش دايم لحد Please God, dear God, God give us something good to sit on it. Give us a seat on it!
 


