Before the revolution, change was just a normal, everyday word. Like, "Change a gas can," "Change a tire," "Change your car." But other than that, the ceiling was very low; there was nothing more than that. When we say, "Change," after the revolution, you know that we're talking about something radical.
Change is moving from one state to another, whether it's change for the better, change for the worse, gradual change, or the attempt to change by force. The attempt to change by force turns into revolution.
In sociology and political science, they distinguish between two things: change and transformation. Change is when something happens to things in their sequential development, and transformation is a voluntary action with intent. The fact of the matter is… the truth of the matter is that you change, or you have a desire to transform certain things, when your needs are not met by the facts of reality. So you say, "I must transform the facts of reality." We all seek to reformulate our reality, so that it meets our needs.
That explains why the January 25th Revolution came after elections. The elections established facts of reality that no one could accept. كرست بالعكس، بل جمدت الموقف عند مجموعة صفرية ليس لديها شيء ومجموعة مليونية لديها مليارات. It established the contrary—it froze the situation at a zero-sum group with nothing, and a group of a million with billions. So this separation… this gap is what prompted the question of change. It pushed the question of change to the Square.
The goal of the revolution when it first started, from beginning to end, was changing everything in the system. Changing the judiciary system, the media, changing… fundamentally changing the way the system treats Egyptians. Of course, none of those things changed. Maybe it's even worse than before.
Change means changing the country for the better. For the better. And now, people are inflating the prices. They have to go down a bit.
We've seen everything get more expensive—everything. The car used to come with jerkins of water for four pounds; now we buy a jerkin for ten. Now if you take public transportation, it's double the price.
You see them saying in the media, "We've changed; we've changed." It's just talk that has changed. There's no change in reality. No real change; none at all. The way people in the government talk, like a minister saying, "I'm doing things, I'm doing and doing," but you don't see anything happening on the ground.
I'm telling you that the problem with change is us, ok? We ourselves don't want to change. Change isn't gonna come from the government or from the Army; it won't come from a school or ministry; it won't come from any of those things at all. Change will come from us.
Change doesn't happen overnight. It takes work, it takes… it takes logical thinking. There is something called right and something called wrong. To change from wrong to right is what's needed. From what I've seen, the change that has happened has been for the worse. In the last three years, anyway.
From my perspective, I think the days of Sadat were much better. There was a time when a kilo of meat was one pound…
What? A kilo of meat for one pound?
One pound! Can you imagine a kilo of meat for one pound? People rose up and revolted, and the youth went out. They had no idea that there would come a day when meat was eighty-five pounds a kilo! Sadat just said to them, "As long as I am here and alive, not one of my children will be killed or injured." I wish the rest of the leaders who've come—Mubarak, Tantawi during the transitional period, and Morsi—would know the value of what he said. But no one knows its value. To the contrary; they did the complete opposite. The country really is changing—they've obliterated logic. This country has obliterated its logic. Everyone has obliterated it. They went out and revolted against someone, and then they brought him back again. What the fuck is that? 
This word "change" is tied to revolution. Meaning: one has to change oneself before they change the regime. People have to change themselves first. People were going to succeed in the revolution because they changed themselves. But when they went back again, the revolution failed. Change has to come from inside first, not from outside.
All of our lives we've thought that we are the Egypt of the Pyramids, the seat of civilization and history. But let's really take a look: we are nothing, we have no ideas. We haven't an ounce of improvement in our lives. I myself don't do anything to improve myself; I don't take any courses, I don't do anything to progress or develop. 
I hope for there to be change, but it's clear that it's difficult. Anyone who tries to do anything good, even if it's small, finds out they have to struggle. Even if it's just in their work. The regime stops anyone who tries to do anything good.
There are some people who will interpret my words as, "You hate this country. How can you say that?" But seriously, if we want this country to be better, we need a revolution on everything, big and small. When that happens, these people we have here—the people who belong to the former regime—are the first ones who will run away from Egypt. You see, when those people leave the country, you can be sure it will change. As long as they keep feeling safe, they will stay here. Thus, there will never be any change.
I don't want to talk about politics; I want to talk on a popular level. If someone works somewhere and doesn't like their boss, they can go up to their face and say, "You can't do what you're doing; you have to change." Or, they can go to the boss's manager and say, "This person is doing this thing and we want them to change." I can do it, if I work someplace like that; I'll talk to my friends and we'll go together to someone at the top. Before now, that wouldn't be possible, because… because the former ruler ruled with fear and punishment, and the citizen had no power. The ruler and the ones who enforced his rule had all the power. So of course we had no voice, but now with change we can… anyone can call for change. "I don't like that and I'm going to change it," and you can believe that you can change it.
The most change that has happened is in people: people's minds have changed. That's for sure.
Change… change? You should get rid of this word altogether. This country doesn't change. The country has gone back to the way it was before.
We just took out Mubarak, but his regime is still there, ok? It hasn't changed. All of the state institutions work by birthright. All of it is birthright. You take out the leader, and there's still his son, his nephew, and his brother. 
As long as nothing has changed, people will keep going out demonstrate. The people won't stop until they finish the task—until they've changed what they want to change.
I say there has been change. Yeah, we've gone back to the Mubarak era, but we've gained a lot of things. We've gained a lot. We took out Mubarak, we took out a corrupt group, we exposed a corrupt group that was ruining the country politically. The youth spoke out, they said their opinions, we did some things: amendments, demonstrations. We exposed people, and we got to know people who had completely different personalities—good people, patriotic people.
January 25th made change. We made change. The youth made change, and they will make change again.

