Chaos is one of the outcomes of the revolution.
As Mubarak said, "It's either me, or chaos."
What he meant by chaos there was chaos of the people.
It's like a boogeyman that Mubarak threatened us with.
They scare us with chaos. They talked about people making chaos, but, like, to put it simply, without exaggeration, we essentially already live in chaos. From the start, it's been chaos. Every citizen lives in chaos; they don't do anything organized. Organization is something they don't know at all, and don't recognize.
The word regime means something organized, and the word chaos means something confused. The word chaos is really the opposite of regime.
Chaos is anything out of control, or anything that isn't necessary—clashes, people assaulting each other without knowing why, protests going on everywhere without demands, people fighting in the streets so that everyone beats each other. That's called chaos.
Chaos in Egypt has a lot of meanings: chaos of the people, chaos of the regime, chaos of employees, chaos in everything. We are essentially people who love chaos.
Political chaos comes from the absence of democracy for a very long time, so that there are no political entities with any status in society. It means a kind of chaos among all the quasi-politicians who try to get in the picture. There are no clear plans; they have no clear strategies, so there's always a kind of confusion. You'll find a particular personality, a certain political party that appears with one orientation, and then in two months you find them with the completely opposite orientation. Then, in three months, they go back to the first orientation. And then you find out they don't even know what they want themselves. 
The whole country is split. Homes are split in two; in every one, a brother fights with his brother, so there's chaos. You might get screwed just for playing a song. You might get killed. 
Chaos comes from everyone looking out for only their own interests. Chaos, in that no one has a limit—no one has laws to deter them.
There is an absolute, unjust control on you that makes you do whatever in spite of yourself… a real nice control. But unfortunately, that control isn't applied to everyone equally, so the country has the same problems except they've increased… not just increased, but exponentially, a bit. There's chaos. 
If there's chaos, and then there's safety, and people say, "Well, a corrupt ruler can achieve it; he'll take away chaos and keep us safe," I imagine people would choose the corrupt ruler because we've been put in a position to make a really bad choice. 
That's the idea. They want people to live with the idea of chaos and the state of safety that's in their hands. 
Guys, I think it's a really big problem because we're the ones who've created chaos, too. Chaos doesn't come from the government. These days, for instance, you're going down the street and you see a car accident, somebody dead, drowning in their own blood—why is there traffic? How is it my business to stop and watch? Yeah, there's an ambulance, there's a State, there are people doing their jobs, thank you very much. What makes me stop and watch and delay everything? I mean, it's a tragedy; it's an everyday thing that creates chaos.
Chaos is a word tucked inside freedom, so whenever you're talking to someone and say, "Bro, why are you doing that? It's chaos!" — They say, "Man, isn't this freedom?"
Our country has always been chaotic to a large extent.
This country is always chaotic. There's always a party, all night long.
I really love chaos. We are a chaotic people and we love chaos so much, عمال على بطال أي حاجة بيزيط فيها. we embrace it and we live it!
We're not ignorant people and we're not chaotic people. On the contrary. During the eighteen days, there was no Army and there were no police. No one was in the streets except us. When we were in the streets, there was no chaos. People respected traffic; people stopped at neighborhood watches to get searched without complaining. People took care of each other. People went out to protect each other's homes. It showed who the people really are. We're not chaotic at all; on the contrary, when we are put in a chaotic position, we move from chaos to creative chaos, which brings organization out from within. Like what happened in the eighteen days.
I personally changed after the revolution. I mean, there were a lot of things I didn't know before the revolution. Later, after the revolution, a lot of things became clear to me. Among them was the idea of chaos itself. It wasn't really in my mind; it wasn't something I'd seen. But when I saw it, and when I thought about it after the revolution, I didn't feel it was a bad thing. On the contrary, it's a good thing. It's what fosters creativity, essentially. We needed chaos in order to get to the creativity that we still haven't reached. People act like it's completely terrifying. But I don't see it that way. I see it as something that produces other things. It draws things out of us. 

