I've heard the word citizen since I was a kid.
I'm a citizen — a citizen of the Arab Republic of Egypt.
What a citizen is: everything in this country. The people are supposed to be citizens.
If you're Minister of Defense, if you're President, if you're more, if you're less—you're a citizen. Your name is citizen.
Of course, when we talk about citizens, apparently they have rights and duties.
As a citizen, I want my rights. I want to eat, drink, sleep, and get married. I want to have kids and raise a family. 
Citizens have a one hundred percent right to everything in the State. It's their right to work, to get housing, to get the majority vote in the State… to vote in elections.
A citizen lives in a homeland. A citizen is someone who has, like, found a homeland—like, someone who'll fight for it, who'll defend it. A citizen has to have ambition to seek freedom, but only within the borders of their homeland. They don't search for freedom far from their homeland. A citizen always seeks freedom in the interest of their country.
Citizens have freedom where they live. I mean, as a citizen I have a right to everything in the place that I live, with the agreement of the other citizens whom I live with. I mean, citizens are equalized by the Constitution. All citizens have to be equal in the Constitution.
So, for me, citizens respect the Constitution, or the customs and traditions of the homeland where they live—the land that they live on. They have a right to be equal to other citizens in rights, duties, and benefits. There has to equality; there cannot be injustice.
What I mean by the word citizen is that a citizen doesn't care about anything—they don't care about El-Sisi or Morsi or legitimacy or… They are people who just want to live a good life, to get something to eat. The great majority, in Egypt the greatest of whom are people who just want to live.
So, if we classified the Egyptian people as citizens, we might arrange them in three classes. There are the capitalists: the high class. They're the super citizens—not super, but superlux. Those citizens have a right to everything, even mistakes. They even have the right to change laws as they like. The average citizens have the right to oppress citizens in the third class.
There's just one word that expresses the word citizen: indigent.  
A citizen is something big, something huge—something bigger than we can understand. I haven't reached the level of a citizen. If I found a million pounds right now, I'd get up and leave you. If someone called me to say they had a thousand pounds for me, I'd get up and leave you. A citizen has to feel a sense of loyalty. A citizen!
Back in the days of Hosni Mubarak, it was a good thing; there was strong patriotism. Why? Because freedom was rare. There was a lot of patriotism, and we were really enthused about the country, you know what I mean? Now, the citizens feel that there is change. When we talk about Egypt, they say, "Egypt hasn't given me my rights. Citizens have no rights."
Citizens have gotten cheap. It's become easy to waste their blood, so they have no love for their country. So now there's an increase in travel abroad. A lot of Egyptians have gone to live abroad. That's an unfortunate thing. Why do birds migrate? Why do they fly from Europe to Africa? They migrate because it's cold in Europe. When they see the cold and the sea coming in, they leave their homeland—they emigrate. To where? To Africa; to the heat. They go to Africa, where there are flowers and life and everything, and they live.
There is no citizen in Egypt who's gotten their rights.
I feel like I'm not a citizen, because I've not gotten my rights. I haven't even gotten ten percent of a citizen's rights, because as a citizen, I'm supposed to get help. First of all, as a citizen, I'm supposed to find work. If there's work, there's life. If there's no work, there's no life.
There's no work, there's no housing, there's no transportation… nothing, nothing, nothing at all.
If the government had mercy on citizens; if the government took good care of them, fixed them up, and let them breathe, we would all be citizens. Except we're not citizens. I don't think I'm a citizen. Because in order to get to the level of citizen, we need a new people and a new President—to get to the level of this word, citizen.
At the moment of January 25th, there was great patriotism. The citizens felt like they lived in their homeland, and they were proud to be Egyptian—proud that finally something good was happening. I mean, unity really is power—a totally great thing. It cannot be described. There are no words to describe it. 
There's patriotism in one's blood. It's patriotic when there are people who come to destroy, to do something… No, this is our homeland, and this is our reputation. 
In the past, France wanted to seize Sinai, and البدو عادوا للدولة the Bedouins returned to the State and said, "We are Egyptian citizens." But Egypt, which is the Army and the government, doesn't count us as citizens. They think we've come from somewhere else to live on their land. They think we aren't good people, that we're ناس قتالين قتلى murderers—I mean, they think everything bad about us. None of us go to the government and say, "Save me! Give me my rights." I mean, we have Bedouin customs from our ancestors that we live by. So there's an Egyptian government that comes and doesn't understand our customs. They get someone from over there, from amongst them, who barely understands what a Bedouin is, and he gathers us up and puts us in prison.
The concept of citizenship, for me, is living together and that's it. The idea of citizenship is that we respect each other's rights so that we can live together, even if we're different. We lived by it in the past without understanding the meaning of the word—the significance of its technical name. No, we lived by it. Now, we can't achieve it; we don't do it. That's the difference between now and then. The concept itself doesn't exist among us.
Citizens' rights have disintegrated in the past thirty years, and still they are silenced and knocked on the head. They're totally beaten down in order to survive. They'd take anyone who says anything political that opposes the regime and beat them to a pulp. They'd put them like this on the machine… put them on the chair and connect the electricity… I'll tell you… they'd put electricity here like this, and put electricity in a sensitive place like this, and they'd totally fuck them up. 
It's not being a citizen to just obey the President's orders or obey the government's orders. No, I'm not a تور مربوط في الساقية, going out to work twenty-four hours a day so that at the end of the month I get paid a thousand or a thousand five hundred pounds to spend on my kids and then get religious. No, I want citizen to mean that, yeah, I work two jobs, the country is collapsing… ok, I work two jobs and depend on myself, but I'm treated with respect by the State. Then, I'll be able to say the word citizen.
We're not in a jungle; we're in the sea. Not the jungle, which would be easy! It's well known that the lion is powerful, so that's it, no one goes near the lion. We're fish, and the big fish eat the small fish, thank you very much.
I still think that Egyptian citizens are like… they feel like whatever direction they take—going, coming, working, dressing up or down—they're still indigent, they are still beaten down as they say… yeah, I swear. That's what a citizen is.
Citizens are worked down to the bone, and they will keep on being worked down to the bone.
We haven't gotten our rights. As a citizen, I have gotten my rights, so obviously, of course I won't fulfill my duties towards the country. Citizens have seen everything bad in this country; I mean, as citizens, everything bad has happened to us.
I hope that the new government knows what the word citizen means.
I mean, if we want to build a State, citizens have to be taken care of. They have to be offered decent education that develops their capacities. They have to be treated as people who have minds, not stuffed with information and that's it. They have to be offered health insurance and humane treatment. They have to be offered work and housing and humane transportation, and a clean environment to live in. 
There have to be rules made for everyone, that equalize everyone in everything. Bread and supplies… that is, distributed food supplies… All of these things have to be equal for everyone.
God be with the citizens. We are amongst them.






