In Egypt, civil war is understood as conflict between classes, social statuses, groups, and dogmas set against each other.
Civil war is when there is a dispute between citizens of the same country, and democratic tactics can't resolve it. Each of them wants to put their opinion into practice by force. They don't agree on a mechanism of a democratic system to bring them together, so everyone resorts to putting their opinion into practice by force. It turns into civil war.
Before the revolution, civil war basically reminded me of the wars that happen in Africa, the pictures of children who are dying, famines, and all that kind of thing.
Civil war could obviously be relevant to Sudan, but the situation in Egypt is different. There are societies like Syria where there's quite a lot of sectarianism and ethnic conflict. In Egypt, it's not to the same degree.
Until a little bit after the revolution.
The scene at the time of Mohamed Mahmoud was weird to me. It looked like downtown Cairo was split into two parts: to the right of Talaat Harb, street sellers and traffic cops were taking everything in stride; while Feleki Square looked like a civil war. Its color, because it was full of gas. It was totally impossible to walk there in any regular way. Since then, that's been my personal definition of the concept of civil war.
This other time, it changed even more—in the second incident in Abbasiya, the Hazemoun thing. It was in April or May 2012. That day… that whole day smelled of blood. When you heard that the civilians of Abbasiya were in opposition, that they were fighting with the people… the word "civilians" had a different ring. You hear "civilians" used as an expression, so you might as well say "civil war," too. It doesn't make a difference.
A civil war was gonna happen at one point or another. People went to Itihadiya… they went and tore up the tents. I think that day was the first time the Brotherhood and the revolutionaries assaulted each other. People fell on both sides. They died, I mean. That was the only civil war that happened, and inshallah it won't happen again. God willing, it won't happen again.
Egypt has a thermostat—that mechanism on any electronic device that turns it off when it reaches a certain temperature. Like a tea kettle. At a certain temperature, it turns off. At the boiling point It doesn't keep going. We fight each other, and we fight to ensure that geographical areas do not approach each other, and this country remains as it is. No. Our condition is that we are fighting in different geographical areas. We have another specialty: at a certain number, the sides themselves stop killing, even though the objective circumstance for continuing the killing remains. You can name it: call it the thermostat of civilization, call it a higher degree of blood… call it what you will.
For example, Port Said and the stadium. Who said the number of dead at Port Said Stadium should stop at thirty-four? How come?! Why not thirty-six, or seventy? Why not more? As long as the factor line of thirty-four exists, why aren't thirty-five killed? The Egyptian people have a thermostat. The whole thing stops at that number. That's enough for now; and the thermostat stops it.
Who said civil war? People said it during the year Morsi was in power. They'd say, "A civil war is going to happen, as long as Morsi is running things his way. He comes out only to talk to his own people—the ones who belong to the Muslim Brotherhood." Morsi said, "My organization and I," and no one else was important. Morsi didn't say that in a speech, but he worked according to that kind of principle. The way he spoke, like, "I see you. Five-four-six-three." And, "My people; my kin." My people; my kin alone's a disaster; it set him up for disaster.
I didn't feel that way much during Rabaa, because by then everything was totally different. People'd say that the Muslim Brothers basically don't belong in this country, so you can't really see it as a civil war. Like… they aren't this country's people.