We wanted to start with a clean slate.
Before June 30th, there was no water, no gas, no electricity, nothing… one of those points of popular discontent on the level of political leadership, in opposition to the Brotherhood.
When we went out on June 30th, we were revolting against the Brotherhood. It was obvious.
The second January 25th Revolution was when they had a revolution for people who wanted El-Sisi and people who wanted Morsi to say so. There were demonstrations, and you would say, "I want El-Sisi," and another would say, "No, I want Morsi." We went and we said, "We want El-Sisi," because we follow him.
June 30th was beautiful. I joined it, obviously. I said to them, "Play Habibti ya Masr [My Beloved Egypt]," my favorite song. That's the least thing I could do to salute Field Marshall El-Sisi, I swear to God I adore him. The people will never respect a civilian president. It has to be someone strong at first, you know what I mean?
I didn't know what to do. I wanted to go out against the Brotherhood, but I didn't want the Army to come. So I didn't know at all whether I wanted to go out on June 30th or not. Since I was traveling, I decided to extend my travels past June 30th.
I marched in the protests on June 30th and I was in a state of awe. I mean, I went out on the 25th and it didn't look like that. I want a psychological analysis to explain to me the people that went out; I want someone to give me a psychosocial analysis for the number of people that were out in the street, hating the Brotherhood in such great number, after just a year. I mean, since when have so many Egyptians participated in politics?
We went out and we really, truly participated! We were ecstatic! And by the way, everyone was there. Compared to the 25th, it was nothing—I went out on the 25th but not a lot of people did, but everybody went out on the 30th.
It was a crazy celebration, practically a celebration of the devil himself. The only thing they were missing was to get a little kid and sacrifice him.
I swear to God, I think it was a ladies' revolution, and those ladies were exploited by TV. I went out that night to witness the scene. I didn't see anything but ladies and some Christians, some thug kids, slackers and sluts. There was like a motorcycle rally, with every motorcycle ridden by three or four kids and each one of them holding a sword. A motherfucking party.
June 30th was the strongest propaganda I've seen in my life. If I'm ever going to make propaganda for something I care about, I'm going to hire the people who worked on it.
I went out. I was basically an idiot.
I was really happy on June 30th. I remember someone came up to me and said, "Happy coup." I understood. I understood that it was the truth, and I wasn't happy about it. For that reason, I like to completely differentiate between June 30th and July 2nd or 3rd.
I'm not sure what June 30th was from my perspective. How did we get there? What were we doing? Or, what was being done to us? Anyway, who are "we"? I don't know… I don't understand…
I was scared. That day, for me, was the start of a lot of fear.
It turned out to be a "cone." The word comes from the trick you play on one of your friends when they're asleep. You make a cone out of paper and put it between their toes, and then you light it on fire. When it burns, they wake up with a jolt. That's what happened to us on June 30th.
I knew that June 30th was a battle between the felool and the revolution. And the felool were a whole lot stronger.
After June 30th, the media tried to give people the idea that the revolution was not January 25th, but June 30th. We saw that on every TV show, from the opposition, from everyone—that the revolution was the June 30th revolution.
Of course, in my opinion it was not a revolution. The only revolution we know was January 25th. That was mischievous talk—a bit of acting and a child's game so that the performance we are living in could go on. But maybe, we'll see; God only knows what'll happen. Maybe it was in the country's best interest. Maybe, dear God, what happened was good for us.
I saw with my own eyes all the people going out on June 30th, and it was also a revolution. The people revolted against the Brotherhood and against the Brotherhood's President.
They were one of the reasons that a regime such as the Muslim Brotherhood was even around. Because of their pessimism; because they chose not to get someone who knew how to unite people, or who even had an idea of how to gather some number around them and succeed in getting a message across. So June 30th was just a piece of theater to remove a regime that they themselves essentially helped to bring to power.
ElBaradei came out and said it—he's the only one who said it, straight to the faces of the Parliament who were in power then—that June 30th was one of the waves of the January 25th Revolution. That's the expression I stick with—it wasn't a revolution, but a wave.
We had to go out on June 30th. We went out and we were right to go out. People demanded the tiniest thing in the world—I mean, we were demanding things that even a naïve regime could have agreed to. Then, we could have moved on. People came right up to you and stood next to you; you weren't available and you said you would stay for another five hundred years.
What he did brought people to the point of negotiating with the devil himself, because of what we saw in just one year. If we had waited a bit, I don't know if Egypt would even exist at all.
June 30th was a military coup, whose goal was to rape the authority. That's really what happened: the rape of authority.
June 30th was one of those truly disgusting things, primarily because of those who stayed at home and then decided to go out and participate in the provocative demonstration-celebrations. I blame the people who went out on June 30th and know that it was a coup—who know that it was hurt by the coup—but who are still afraid to stand up for what's right. I say to those people: you damned the January 25th Revolution. Shame on you for ever calling out in its name.
It was theatre… theatre acted in a very professional, and very shallow, way.
June 30th was a stupid move that sent us all to hell when it happened.
In the end, the tons of people who went out to get their demands and all the beautiful things changed their target, and the people who had a specific target came out victorious.
The struggle was between the Brotherhood and Mubarak's regime, and the revolution was in the middle. The two of them crushed the revolution.


