The word "clashes" was a new one for me. I mean, I only ever saw them on TV. Its meaning is broad as hell. Clashes could be people killing each other, and clashes could be two groups standing across from each other, swearing at each other from far away.
I was in clashes when I was a soldier. I was in them before and after. Before, I was in a battle in Matrouh that was between Bedouins and Upper Egyptians. The Bedouins were obliterating the Upper Egyptians and the Upper Egyptians were obliterating the Bedouins—nine people died on one side and, I don't know, maybe twelve died on the other. Between the two of them was some dust, so we went out that night and and stood in the dust.
The word "clashes" spread more after the revolution. Everyone got to know it, I mean. They didn't say "assault" or anything like that. They said, "There are clashes."
Ultimately meaning that if you don't know the word, you didn't join the revolution. The revolution was clashes.
For me, clashes means: get dressed, get ready, take your stuff with you, take your mask and go out. Even if you're at a party.
I went to my first clashes on January 23rd—not the 25th. They were in Imbaba near the court. We went out in a march, and we were calling for the fall of the government: "Oh Nazif, oh Nazif," and all that… a lot of blah, blah, blah. The police attacked us, thugs came out to attack us, and I don't know what else. It was the first time in my life. On January 25th I went out in a march by the Syndicate. We stood our ground and we were assaulted as usual. We left that night after really violent clashes… really violent.
It was January 28th. We went out and finished our march, and the clashes started near the Opera. The assault started near the Opera with tear gas and birdshot. We kept running until the end of the bridge. We stopped at the middle of the bridge, and they sprayed water at us. They assaulted us. Some of us went down; people died and people were injured. It started getting dark, and they started using despicable violence. They were shooting live fire from a distance and running us down with cars. Once upon a time in my life, when I was a kid, I used to see those things in movies. I never imagined that one day I would see that kind of thing in real life.
The clashes didn't really reach Suez in the first part of the revolution. They only came close on January 28th, and after that they were all in Arbaeen Square. As long as the clashes were happening, it was nearly impossible to move from one neighborhood to another. There were assaults from the police: live fire and pellets. The rest of the revolution we ran around in clashes that had no purpose. When Morsi was in power, there was a clash every Friday that you didn't know the reason for.
There was a group called the Rioters Battalion. They were the ones who started every clash that happened in the Square. They were the ones who started the clashes in Mohamed Mahmoud, on the memorial of Mohamed Mahmoud, in the events at the Ministers Council, and at Itihadiya Palace. They were the ones who went out to Itihadiya Palace, to the Qasr al-Nil clashes, to the Maspero clashes, and the Maspero memorial. But they were clashes like…they were peaceful clashes. Stones and Molotov cocktails were thrown, but there were never any weapons like the police say they have. Guns and thugs. The revolutionaries were never thugs.
Clashes were one thing before the revolution and another after. It's like a حماده. In 2008 there were clashes that were like… like, they'd hit you with tear gas. Every time there were clashes you'd run and say, "Sons of bitches! Sons of bitches!" — "Get out! Get out!" — "You… You traitors!" Now, it's something else entirely. We see a gas canister between us; we gather and circle around it. That's us. One time, I flipped a gas canister and it knocked me down. When I went home, I lit it up in my room. No big deal.
Clashes got to be really easy, right? Anytime someone's got a problem with someone else, you see clashes right away. Fights and troubles over trivialities. And the reason for it is obviously the absence of rule of law. Whenever anyone wants to get their rights, or if they have a demand, they start clashes. So they can get their voice heard.
In every situation and everything that's classified under the word clash, there's a chance for someone to get in and say, "Well, there were clashes." The police join and the Army joins, the people in the neighborhood probably join… Anyone can join clashes. Everyone clashes.
It was one of the most significant issues that caused people to lose their grasp of the revolution, and caused them to be against the revolution. When we started the revolution, we weren't organized. We were thrilled with the idea that the revolution had no particular order and no leader. The demonstrations that came out, the ones no one knew where they came from: they came out with slogans, not with clear demands.  تنفع تتنفذ وتبقى محسوبة. The benefits run out and it becomes calculated.
Right now, we want to get our rights. How are we going to get them? We have only one solution. We go out to the streets. We might have a march, do a sit-in, go out to the Square to ensure that we speak in our own name. The media doesn't speak for us. Then, they come out and assault us; maybe with tear gas. We're not going to stand around and watch. In spite of ourselves and what's inside us, because of what's happening inside us and what we've seen, we're exasperated. So, clashes have to happen, and after those clashes there will be injured people, people who've died, people who the government has taken. These clashes are like a weapon. They are our weapon.
Clashes are a weapon against the oppression of the police.
At first you were afraid of clashes, and now you get right up in their faces. You have pellets, and I have a stone. You have a gun, and I have a Molotov cocktail. At the end of the day, they're all weapons. 
After the revolution, you thank God that you passed through it and nothing happened to you. And yet, you did see your friends falling next to you. It goes without saying that your friend, who hung out with you and who lived with you in the same quarters, who ate and drank with you, and who is suddenly not there… That's also a kind of tragedy. The soldiers are torn up inside. When you got out again in a clash, you're tougher on people. You know… he was our friend in our quarters and we were all torn up after… after he… of course, after he died and stuff. We would all go out in a clash and agitate the people. No one could… I mean, even before the officer gave us the order, we would be destroying everyone.

