In and of themselves, sit-ins are groups of people who have certain demands they want realized. In fact, the person who is supposed to realize those demands for them resorts to violence in order to clear the sit-in.
I'm going to talk about all the sit-ins that have been cleared.
I mean, there are a lot of sit-ins that have been cleared…
Before the revolution, clearing the sit-in was said about workers' sit-ins. Like, when workers sat-in against the owners of companies, when they sat-in against ministers, against the prime minister… Security would clear them, assault them with gas or pellets, stuff like that. So, the term 'clear the sit-in' was used.
The sit-in on March 9th  was cleared. It was the Army that cleared the sit-in that time. They dragged اتسحل a lot of girls. Ramy Essam was tortured inside the Egyptian Museum; his back was torn up. I'll never forget that clearing of the sit-in. They were dragging a lot of girls by their hair.
They sent in special forces for the clearing of the sit-in on April 8th. The officers' sit-in, on April 8th. Special forces are these tall people who look like they eat human beings; they seriously look totally bizarre. It was the first time I ever saw them. They were holding really strange weapons, too, and wearing hoods. No less than nine or ten of them came into the Square firing guns. I don't know if it was live fire or blanks, I couldn't tell… it was tak tak tak tak tak tak!! Whoever ran ran, and whoever could hide in a building hid. They arrested the officers and we never heard anything about them after that. After that, it was the Ministry of Ministers… no, was it Maspero? Maspero.
There has never been a sit-in cleared in a humane way. Everything happened in a violent way. With massacres.
I'm going to talk about the clearing of the Rabaa sit-in, because there were a lot of sit-ins. But that was the most atrocious one of all. Or maybe it should be called a global massacre… not a massacre like South Africa. A global massacre. 
The clearing of the Rabaa sit-in was a massacre and an extermination. Literally, an extermination.
I thought the clearing of the sit-in was the most appropriate solution, even if it was by force. I'm not bothered by what they did. While I might be upset that people died, those people weren't right. Their thinking is what got them to the place they're in.
For that clearing of the sit-in—the one at Rabaa—I said that they were given a chance, a second chance, and a third.  وهما اللي ظلمة الإخوان، They are the Muslim Brothers' darkness, and after that they cried and complained. You know what I'm talking about? They were slanderers. I mean, they lied when they said, "This many thousands died. Twelve or fifteen thousand." They, like, exaggerate when they talk. 
They intended to kill thirteen thousand, but the number only reached six thousand and eight hundred. The farce that happened at the clearing of the sit-in was like this: burning people alive, killing injured people, snipers aiming at eyes and heads… Shooting to kill. When you want to clear a sit-in, you spray water, fire gas and pellets. Even if you are going to shoot live fire, you shoot to terrify, not to kill. Shoot a leg or a hand, but they shot to kill. They shot at eyes and heads and backs… They shot to kill. They wanted to kill; they wanted to massacre; they didn't want to clear the sit-in.
Like, if you're shooting a machine gun, are the police going to respond with pellets or gas? They'll respond with a machine gun, right? When you shoot at me, I'm not going to stay silent; I'm going to shoot back at you. Before you kill me, I'll kill you.
The clearing of the sit-in would be two sit-ins, not just one: Rabaa and al-Nahda. Two armed sit-ins. Whatever sort of weapons they had, at the end of the day they were both armed sit-ins. The irons they had, الشوم الحديد the iron bars, the barricades, the chains… those are all arms. Most of the people who were shot didn't have arms. The Brotherhood were victims. Victims of the regime.
People had to be victims. You're sitting-in, and first of all, if you're in the right, God will make you victorious. The second thing is whether the people stand with you. The people weren't with you, so are you wrong or not?
None of the people who went had weapons with them, because people who have weapons don't die. A person with a weapon will never die, because they'll keep shooting until they run out of ammunition and then hide anywhere. Everyone who died was definitely a martyr. God have mercy on them—along with the January martyrs, the Maspero martyrs, the Ultras, the March 9th martyrs, and the Ministry of Ministers martyrs.
They say, "There's no such thing as the clearing of the Rabaa sit-in." They want to erase it from history. God will judge in the end. 
The clearing of the Rabaa sit-in was singularly the worst atrocity Egypt has ever seen. In terms of the death toll, I mean. It's not something that needs to be sold as an atrocity; it was an atrocity in and of itself. 
From my perspective, both of the sit-ins had to be cleared. Why? First of all, the Brotherhood didn't want freedom. They didn't want life. They didn't want… when they were in power, they didn't care if I died or was injured; they didn't care if I was put in prison. They weren't right when they were on the other side, and when I'm in the position of power I'm not going to give them the rights that they didn't give me. They don't have a right to it; they don't have a right to freedom. As long as they reject it, they don't have the right to democracy. As long as they reject the principle.