A constitution is an elite text par excellence, and it is a text that is unattainable in the popular and social understanding. It is an elite, refined text that regulates the relationship between citizen and state. It regulates life, and it organizes principles and ideas. 
Before January 25th, I never read the Constitution and I didn't know what articles it contained. Then Hani Ramzy's movie Ayez Haqi [I Want My Rights] came out, and I still didn't open up the Constitution.
Even if you asked an American right now about their Constitution: they haven't read it, heard of it, or know anything about it.
You might be in a country where there is no constitution, but the most important thing is that the State respects people, that it respects their freedom and humanity. That's all.
Then came the Constitution of 2012. We went out to vote in the referendum on March 19th, on five problematic articles. I was really proud of participating in the Constitution.
Who went out to vote, really? Forty percent of the people are uneducated! Like, those forty percent have a right to vote; they don't know what a constitution is. If I give them a pound, they'll go vote yes. Am I right or not? If I give them a bottle of cooking oil, they'll go vote yes.
The question of the referendum; the question of the people's opinion; the question of the opinion of the social classes other than the elite. It's my belief that it's a kind of political hypocrisy. We hold a referendum because we need legality and legitimacy. But the truth of the matter is, the referendum adds nothing to the text. At the same time, we satisfy their needs with it.
Of course, the Constitution of 2014 was a load of unnecessary bullshit: the results were ninety-eight percent! I want to know how you get a result of ninety-eight percent? Ludicrous! The youth weren't there! Sixty percent of the country—the state entity! Most constitutions in the world don't get passed by the percentage of people who want them. If you want to modify the constitution, or if there's something in it you don't like, you use democratic tactics. You might like to participate in a political party; you might like to campaign for a change in an article; you change certain articles by parliamentary means, through the representative of the area you're in; by legitimate means, in the correct way, not in twisted ways. But when you come out and say, "Well, I don't really like it, so it's bad," that's not right at all. No.
The Constitution means nothing. They throw it together any old way, and then thank God we're finished. They throw together any old law. And you, ma'am, are forced to approve it or not approve it. They just do what they want to do. I've never in my life voted for anything, since before Hosni Mubarak, and until the day I die I will never vote for or against anything. Because I know that regardless of whether I approve or disapprove, the Constitution will go ahead.
Come have a look at the council of fifty, when they got together to make the Constitution: secret meetings, the types that sat on the council didn't represent all of the people, there were prostitutes on the council… Among the things that tells you about the council of fifty is this story that one time the Army leaders suddenly appeared at one of the meetings, because Elham Shahin and Leila Alwi came in the room. They all stood up to greet them! We said, "Scandalous! These are the leaders of our country!" They get up and salute prostitutes!
Of course in 2014, I didn't go to the referendum. I won't participate in anything political, except for things that will really change the course.
They just want to do something to push it through: to push a constitution through, to push a president through, to push whatever through. So that, in the end, El-Sisi gets in power.   
We could put the best constitution in place, but we wouldn't enforce it. It's just words on paper. I mean, the important thing is that we enforce it. The laws that are passed aren't the problem—it's their enforcement, you know?
Ultimately, a constitution is a regulation of social conflict. Make one or don't, glorify it or not; regardless, socio-economic development is a departure from the text, not a part of it. And thus, when someone tells you that the Constitution of England is not written, that's the best and the finest. Why? Because the text defines the context; the text defines the relationship… Pay attention. That doesn't mean it doesn't exist, but it's not articulated. It's not articulated.