Before the revolution, continuous revolution didn't mean anything to me.
In another word, permanent revolution. That's the title of a book by the great socialist champion who they're always fighting over: Trotsky. That was before the revolution. About five people in Egypt spend their whole lives fighting over Lenin and Trotsky and the book The Permanent Revolution, which is among the literature of the communist and socialist struggle. No one else knows anything about it. I found the book once by chance, so I bought it and read it. I went on summer vacation with my family, even though I didn't want to, and I sat on the beach reading it. Of course, the people in Baltim didn't understand anything. There was this girl who came up to my sister and asked, "Why is your brother reading?" Not, "What is he reading?" but, "Why?" I don't think she took notice of the book's red cover; I don't think it meant anything to her.
The revolutionaries started the word continuous revolution.
You won't find this word used, except by a minority. And I may be one of them. The revolution continues until it achieves its demands.
Like for example, if we went out and said, "Hey odious Morsi, the revolution continues!" That's called continuing the revolution.
Meaning, the revolution will continue until it achieves its demands and its goals.
I heard it in a demonstration where we were strongest; I mean, we were a large number. "Hey odious Field Marshall, the revolution continues!" There was always someone "odious" whenever we said, "The revolution continues." That made the whole thing really funny to me. Like, we don't have to keep marching in the streets saying, "Hey odious Morsi, the revolution continues!" He just killed people in the revolution yesterday, so he knows that the revolution continues. طول ما أنا مش شايف مدعاة أصلا للهتاف، نفسه طول ما إنت على الأرض As long as I don't know what is meant by the chant, he won't know why we're on the ground. Where does the revolution continue? Does it continue in the world? Or does it continue in our hearts?
Continuous revolution isn't just a word; it's a way of life. Can I call it a way of life? I feel like I am gonna live and die, have children and grandchildren, and keep calling out the same thing: "The revolution continues."
I lost hope a long time, on a significant level… on the level of who rules this country and that sort of thing. Around the time that Morsi became President, I lost hope. I think there is no hope on that level. We're not going to be able to get someone to fix the country. Nope. I have to go out and fix it myself. I'm going to do what I need to do and what I can do to fix this country in my way. It's not enough to believe in something; you have to go out and do it. And I definitely have to have other people with me. You can't change anything alone. So I find people with the same vision, and we go out and do something. If you know that you have justice on your side and that you are working well, then that's it. You will change people's minds. Just go out and work, already.
Right now at this very moment, the word continuous revolution depresses me. I have a shred of hope; I don't know where it comes from. Still, continuous revolution depresses me. It makes me cry.
The only serious use that I've seen—the only significant use in the right place—was in the elections in a revolutionary alliance. At the time there really was a struggle to persist in the revolution.  كان في عز الصفقة الإخوان مع المجلس العسكري The Brotherhood was striking a powerful deal with SCAF, and a group of people appeared, saying, "We're going to try and get a group of revolutionaries into the Parliament, and we're making an alliance called The Revolution Continues." They didn't deal with it as a slogan. For the first time, there was an action tied to the term. Anyone who wanted to distribute flyers could go get some and pass them out, or take some and put them up. When the candidates in the alliance went out, they didn't come out saying, "The revolution continues, the revolution continues, the revolution continues." They'd go out and talk about their agenda, the alliance's agenda, and name the members of the alliance. So the whole thing changed from a mere title to a real thing. Something tangible. Something that said yes, the revolution continues in this person and this person and this person… These people who we want to get into Parliament.
The revolution will rise up again. The revolution continues in that at any time, no matter who is governing, we have to go out in the streets, say what we think, and express what is inside us. And whoever's bad? We'll take them out.
It could be the seed of the next revolution, but right now the revolution is dead. Don't blame me for my pessimistic outlook. The revolution really is dead since the day of Mubarak's resignation, when the Army said they would take control of the country.
I really hate it when people say, "The revolution failed" — "The revolution is ruined" — "The revolution is over." That's just not true. The revolution is actually an idea, and if you still have the idea, and you still want to get something out of it, to change something… I mean, if you lose hope completely, the revolution will not continue. Even if only one person still keeps the idea, it continues. It doesn't die.
No, no, the revolution doesn't continue. That's like holding up a dead person and moving them around like a puppet.
God willing, as long as we have souls inside us, the revolution will continue—as long as we live.
There are still people going out; there are still demonstrations.
There is still an idea; there is still opposition. 
Continuous revolution: those are the conditions we live in. The revolutionary conditions for the last three years. It's the reason for the deterioration of the Egyptian economy, for the deterioration of Egyptian morals, for the spread of chaos, and the lack of security.
We really are an occupied country. There is no explanation except that we are an occupied country. Occupation always devastates everything; that's what they're doing. They devastate everything. You don't have healthcare, you don't have education or art, you have a huge level of illiteracy, so… Honestly, I really don't know if the revolution continues. I do hope that it continues through all of this heartache. 
Our whole lives have become revolution. That's all. There is nothing else in our lives except revolution. Some of us died, some of us were injured, and some us were imprisoned. Some of us lost our futures because of the revolution. But it's ok. The revolution will keep on continuing, as long as we want it to. It will never continue if we despair.
It's a dream. It's impossible to succeed in a revolution in Egypt or a country like Egypt with these people. The people actually rejected the idea. Or, they couldn't comprehend it. We the people of Egypt love to stick with the status quo; we love stability to death. We don't want to develop. We are against progress. That's the truth.