COPS
I really don't like to talk about cops, because I feel like I'm under surveillance. Why is that guy walking around us like that? He looks kind of… Anyway… My opinion…
I was very neutral before the revolution. I didn't care at all about the cops. There's a lot of corruption, but I didn't think it was a really important issue in the community… I mean, it didn't affect us.
I think the cops are really lame guys with their mustaches. They're either سيس young men who go to police academy and then wear their uniforms to the beach or whatever. They wear their police uniform, their stars, sunglasses, and a motorcycle. They always seem very removed from me. I don't react to them; I just keep going on my way. Because of that, we haven't had any interaction—and I hope that we don't have any interaction.
Before the revolution, my dad was traveling and he had some money with him and stuff. So, he was, like, going by car so, like, at any checkpoint they'd come search the car. So my dad would get out twenty pounds and give it to them, so we could go through. If we didn't give them money, we'd get searched.
I've been arrested here a bunch of times by the way, and searched, and I don't know why. Why me? Even though there are a lot of people besides me, every time some police guy stops me. They go search me and take my bag. They take out everything piece by piece. They screw me! Those cops have screwed me more than anyone else. More than my mom and dad.
There's a guy I really love… but he's, like, just a traffic cop. He's like an old man, but good day to the mood this guy's in! He's on top of the world. He has this old-timey look… like an old-time Egyptian. I pass by him every day at the traffic light when I'm going to work, and he's just stopping cars and saying hi to everyone who goes by.
Whenever we deal with a cop, they're like, "I'm sacrificing my life and my time so that you can walk safely in the street." But I've never actually seen that. I pretty much think they sacrifice their lives and time for the benefits: cars, private clubs, good hospitals, travel abroad, comfortable lives for them and their families. 
Nepotism is a huge problem with the police. It's shameful. Look, there's something really weird in Egypt. Why does an officer's son always become an officer? Why does a doctor's son always become a doctor? Why does an engineer's son always have to become an engineer? We make it that way with our sons. We don't ask our sons, "What do you want to be?" You have to do that. But we say, "You've got to be like me." Why do I have to be like you?
Our kids were sure that, in part, this revolution was a revolution against the police. Basically the police were… they were like Mubarak's hired hands. Anyone who went to jail got messed up; there was no human dignity; that sort of thing. 
May God avenge what happened in the days of Mubarak. The people, the young people who died, all of those people… It was wrong.
Of course, my revolutionary friends who were here in Tahrir hate the cops. They are all-out enemies. There were skirmishes—a war between them and the cops—so there was a lot of hate and a ton of cursing of the cops, to an unnatural degree.
During the revolution, the cops might have been put down when they went out in the streets. I remember the time they said to an officer, "Get out of the car," and then went and searched the officer's car. He was stopped by a neighborhood watch at the time.
It was definitely a dark time in their history. It will never be forgotten that they ran away during the revolution, and that they assaulted the people. The January 25th Revolution was everyone's ضمة الشعب كله, not just the Muslim Brothers or the Salafis or the youth, or anyone. When they assaulted, they assaulted the entire people.
As a part of the State, the cops' job is to protect the citizens, maintain security and keep the peace. I think they do their work like… like when they feel like it. They work when they want to work, and when they don't they don't. It's a problem.
I've never felt that cops are safe at all. I've never dealt with a cop and felt safe, at all. 
They think they have the right to do anything and everything they want, whenever they feel like it. I know people, people from school, who were arrested and charged with possession of hashish or whatever, even if they didn't have anything. Just so they can fill their quota. What is that? How many cases does the country need? How many criminals? Isn't there supposed to be less crime so our country can be better? I don't understand. Do they get more money if we have more crime or more criminals? All of that was before the revolution. Now they don't need to do that because now they take anyone from a demonstration and say, "This guy had a Rabaa button." — "That guy had a camera and was taking photos." Possession of a button is like possession of a weapon. You could go to prison for years.
For real, if we're going to talk about terrorists—some of the cops are responsible for terrorism in Egypt.
And I imagine that all these cops who've been killed recently… I think they've been killed intentionally. It's the police apparatus that's sacrificing them.
The cops are free of charge الشرطة اتمرمطط بدون مقابل. Don't they have weapons? Now, police officers are afraid to say that they're police officers; they're afraid for themselves. 
You'll find good cops and bad cops. There are nice people who are cops; respectable people who could be my brother, my uncle, my son. There are people who are no good at all; people who harm; people who kill.
After the revolution, they were supposed to change and reform, but they didn't change. They were shattered, and they came after us because we rose up in revolution, and they kept coming after us for two years. Then, they reappeared on the 30th to say that they were with us, that we had changed, and whatever else. Of course, they won't change. And we won't we deal with them like we used to, either.
They came back stronger than before, and crueler than before.  
They changed for the worse; they're worse than before. They will always be worse than before. The people did it all to themselves. The people are the ones who said to the cops, "Protect us!" and "You're the ones who can protect us!" They protect the regime, not the citizens. Let's be honest.
The more time has gone by since the revolution, the more the whole thing has gone deeper. I think the cops have layers. There are some cops who have remained really neutral, like before the revolution; there are cops who are terribly corrupt and who I really can say are destroying the country; and, there are some cops in the middle, who have some power to do something. Those are the ones who I feel are known to be sick and have psychological issues, and whose training was abominable.
They have to change, and we are adamant that they have to change. How should they change? They need to restructure, and there have to be human rights in the precincts. And now we know the way. We know that when we don't like something, we go out and say we don't like it. We won't shut up again.