The term couch party didn't exist before the revolution. I don't know who came up with the word, but needless to say, Egyptians have a great sense of humor. 
When the revolution happened, and everyone took a position, they're the people who didn't take any position. They all sat on the couch and watched TV; they didn't do anything.
I was in the Square the first time I heard the word. There was someone shooting for TV, and I heard someone say it. At first I didn't understand, but then he explained. It really affected me, because after that I saw a lot of people… a lot of people just sitting around.
People who don't move for any reason. They just sit around and say, "I don't care."
People who don't really have much of an opinion, and prefer stability.
If we talk about the constitution: "Yes." Yes to the constitution for stability. Elections: a specific person, for stability. For stability, for stability… Their only goal is stability.
People who want peace, nothing more and nothing less. It doesn't matter to them if there is a certain president or minister. 
They don't have a clear opinion about anything you say. So they just sit around the house, happy with just about anyone who gets elected. The most important thing is that life goes on, and people put food on the table.
The couch party should just stay in its place, and not move. They don't say their opinions. They just live in peace. They eat, drink and sleep. I'd describe them as just like animals.
They're people without any positive purpose in life.
Obviously the youth and the people who participated in the protests in the Square were upset that people didn't come out. So they called them the couch party.
It was the media that called them that.
I remember when the term appeared, during the eighteen days. Like, when Mubarak spoke on the night of February 1st—when he said he would leave power after six months. I imagine they were a lot of the people who said, "Alright, just give him a chance." I think that people were talking about the couch party.
It began to be used to describe a group of people: middle class citizens, or older people who didn't go out to the street and didn't participate in the protests. They preferred to stay on the couch and follow what happened on TV.
It probably annoyed people.
I understand that some people are afraid of change. Specifically, when the idea of a revolution came up, the whole thing was really radical. Suddenly, there was intense change. People were talking about… about the removal of the regime. Suddenly, there were no police in the street. Suddenly, there were thugs and stuff like that. I feel like fear was controlling them—to the point that they would accept any situation, no matter what happened.
Most of them are older people: the elderly. They're people who are already grown up and have been keeping their heads down all of their lives. There's no way for the them to speak up . "Keep your head down, go on your way, and nothing will happen. You'll be safe and well."
Seventy million Egyptians are in the couch party. And, I want to say that they shouldn't be called the couch party. They don't have any other choice; their lives are forced upon them. Someone who wakes up in the morning and the first thing demanded of them is breakfast for the kids, breakfast for the wife, whatever. They're always looking to put food on the table, and at the end of the day they go home to sleep without dinner, because they can't even accomplish that.
The couch party are people who, like, open the supermarket in the morning, so they don't participate in the revolution. They're working in the shop to make a living. They see that's in their interest for you to go buy something from them. If everyone participated in the revolution, no shops would open. They'd all be closed, since everyone was sitting in. 
They're ready to be humiliated to make a living. And in the end, they still won't be able to make a living.
I was in the couch party. I didn't participate in any democratic action, but not because I didn't want to. Why am I going to expend all this effort? What am I going to exhaust myself for? The whole process is completely fixed. There's no hope, as Saad Zaghloul said. 
I'm a member of the lovely couch party. I can't say that I participated in the events in any real way. I just went out on the day of Mubarak's resignation. Other than that, I didn't really participate in any actions. I won't say that I don't have revolutionary enthusiasm or that I don't share the ideas that make people that way, but the idea is… I don't know… maybe I'm interested in different issues than the people in the Square. Maybe it's a kind of selfishness more than anything else. But at least I admit it.
I, for one, don't like political parties; I like to have my own thoughts. So when you talk to me about politics, I speak on my own. Don't ask me, "What party do you belong to?" No, my political opinion says such-and-such. But couch party: that means I'm sitting silently. It's a name they call me, you understand? A curse word, with a negative meaning. Get it? 
I was one of them at first, until I saw people dying in front of me on TV. So I did something. 
At the beginning of the revolution, I was a member of the couch party. I used to get everything off the internet. I didn't go out. Maybe also because there weren't demonstrations in Aswan, like in Cairo. After the revolution, during the days of the rule of SCAF, demonstrations started happening here and I used to go out in them, either alone or with my friends. I went out with them and chanted with the others, and I felt a really different feeling—the feeling of being someone participating in the process.
Of course we went out  after the revolution and participated. We were happy about it, because we felt at the time—for those three years—that when we spoke our voices had value.
The truth is that it turned out that the couch party was more effective than people in the street, because in the end they went out to the elections. 
So ok, who won? Did anyone from the revolution win? Did anyone win the elections for Parliament that were held in 2012? No one won! Not even one person from the revolution! And not one young person! The majority of the winners were Islamists, the Muslim Brotherhood, and others. That left the rest of us—the respectable people I mean, the ones in the NDP—who didn't think what was happening was good, to just go and sit on the couch. I'm one of the them. And the media called us the couch party.
The couch party is completely different from felool. Felool are a part of a political party and they participate in society. But the couch party doesn't participate at all. They don't have values at all, and they're ignorant. 
The couch party, unfortunately, is affected by the dictates of the media. Meaning: media is the primary nutrition for the minds of the couch party.
And the TV says contradictory things. There's something weird if you listen to Egyptian TV and then to Al-Jazeera: one is totally different from the other. So you don't understand unless you go out and see for yourself. Get out of the couch party.
As long as I stay home safe, and people outside are dying, people outside are going hungry, I am taking the country to hell.
In the end it became clear that the couch party has the loudest voice, and they define Egypt's fate.
The important thing is that the couch party is a huge number—much more than those who went out in the revolution. If they ever went out in any circumstances, they would have played a very influential role.
When it came time to expel the Muslim Brotherhood on June 30, the people in the couch party did go out. They put a couch in the street. I don't know if you saw it on TV? They said, "We're the couch party that was sitting silently. We've come out to the street, and we're speaking!" It was a lovely picture, really.
The couch party went out on June 30, all of them… and they weren't the couch party. The revolutionaries are the ones who sat on the couch.
Between you and me, I'm now one of them, too. I won't say that I'm in the couch party, but I've started to be… because of my despair. I went out to demonstrations for a whole year. I was shot at with gas canisters and I felt a little hope, but thank God the conditions in Egypt beat that hope to death. Done. That's it.