Do you mean counterrevolution as in revolution against the regime, or counterrevolution as in revolution against the revolution? I don’t really understand. 
For real, what’s a counterrevolution? What are its demands? What does it call for? Do we quit the revolution? Do we go back home and stay there? Should I protest against another protest? Stage a revolution against the revolution? What does it all mean?
Obviously, you can find the term counterrevolution in every book about modern revolutions. When the regime itself stages a revolution against the revolution that you made, it’s called a counterrevolution. 
I’ll tell you plain and simple: you send out a multitude, and they send out a multitude. 
The counterrevolution is the regime that the revolution rises up against. It might have supporters or followers with some extent of power. They carry out a counterrevolution on the revolution.
The term appeared right after the revolution, at the same time as the word felool . Remnants of the old regime got together to stage a counterrevolution on the popular revolution. 
Word got out in the street during the eighteen days that members of the National Democratic Party were part of the counterrevolution. 
The counterrevolution began to play its role at the Camel Battle, with popular forces supporting Mubarak. They came out in a number far greater than those in Tahrir, to end the matter by force. The counterrevolution was decimated in that first battle. It lost a lot, so it had to start restoring its ranks and reconfiguring itself.
Personally, I think it was an economic conflict. To put it very simply: when the revolution rose up, it didn’t suit the interests of capitalists or investors in Egypt. They were beneficiaries of the ruling regime in Mubarak’s time. They were defending the existing economic order, so they could continue to benefit from it. 
The character of the counterrevolution: businessmen, capital funds, felool, murderers, criminals. A lot of shady people. The counterrevolution was represented by the face of SCAF. They mocked the people with elections and referendums. If they were to be believed, they would have talked about a strong constitution from the start—one that would bring together all the Egyptian factions. But, no. It was exactly a month and a half before the rupture began. The factions began an unresolved political conflict—a rapidly escalating political conflict.
People averse to the revolution. Like, those with interests. 
Just like what happened during the revolution: people said, “We want Mubarak.” Like what’s happening now: people say, “We want the Brotherhood.” People want the regime that came before—the one that was revolted against. Why? Because we know it better than what we don’t know. Because people are scared of the unknown. Not because Mubarak was good, but because they’re afraid of what they don’t know. That’s the counterrevolution. It’s primarily built on fear.
The counterrevolution can be a counterrevolution today, and then be the revolution tomorrow. And the people who were originally in the revolution become the counterrevolution. It’s a term that changes. 
Sometimes the true revolutionaries are the counterrevolution, and sometimes the counterrevolution is the revolution. Like what happened in the time of the Brotherhood, and like what’s happening now, to some forces.
Now, the counterrevolution is the government’s scapegoat for its mistakes. They say about everything, “It’s a foreign agenda.” For anything that goes on in the country; for anything that’s out of their control. They say, “It’s a foreign plot." — "There’s a counterrevolution." — "It’s a third hand.” — and I don’t even know what else.
The way I see it, El-Sisi and SCAF in general are leading the counterrevolution. And whoever tells me that El-Sisi isn’t SCAF, that he ultimately resigned from SCAF and became a civilian, I’ll totally tell them, “Fuck off.” Just like that: “Fuck off.” My friend, I’ll tell you how Mubarak himself was basically in SCAF and resigned from it, and how he went along with SCAF for the first ten years of his rule. After that he was the one who managed the country, but still SCAF had a hand in it.
At the end of the day, it’s the counterrevolution that’s in power now. It’s driving things. We can see the evidence: all the NDP’s men are now represented in a party called the Conference Party. Their men are in plenty of positions, including the second highest position in the state: the Prime Minister. The truth is that the counterrevolution prevailed in a lot of battles. If we won one battle, it beat us in five or six.
