A coup is one of two things. It’s either something tumbling down on its face—“The fruit doesn’t fall far from the tree,” as they say—or it’s a military coup. A military coup is when the military seizes power and rules wearing a uniform, not with a constitution.
Most of the time, a coup is staged by way of one official body on another official body.
Coup is a term from after the June 30th Revolution, or what they called the June 30th Revolution. It originated then, when the Muslim Brotherhood said that the people who went out... that it was a coup, not a revolution. 
Since Sisi deposed Morsi, they said that he turned against him, deposed him, and then became the one with power in the country. Then, after that, he handed it over to Adly Mansour.
June 30th was a military coup, and July 3rd was also a military coup.
Honestly, given the number of people who went out on June 30th, I don’t see it as a coup. To tell you the truth. I mean, if El-Sisi wanted to stage a coup on Morsi, the people are the ones who told him, “Stage a coup.” You don’t call it a coup. You call it a revolution.
I’m one of the people who went out on June 30th, and went out on July 4th, but I didn’t go out in a revolution. I went out and it was clear to me that I was going out in support of the military staging a coup on the Brotherhood regime, and removing it.
By the way, I thought that June 30th wasn’t a coup. I thought that June 30th was a revolutionary wave—something like that. Because, when El-Sisi gave his statement, he said, “I will not run for office and I don’t want power. My job is protecting the country from what’s outside of it,” and that kind of thing. And by the way, it wasn’t July 3rd; we still didn’t know that El-Sisi hungered for power. Now El-Sisi is running for office, and that, I say, is a coup. That is the coup.
What happened exactly is that Sisi said, “I will protect the country.” — “I won’t run in elections.”  — “I’ll take down Morsi for you and then we’ll have early elections in three months.” — “The country will be stable. Life will be nice, good and beautiful.” He said all this stuff that sounds nice. Good, ok. He took down Morsi and said, “We don’t have any personal ambitions in the country, other than its protection.” We believed him! — And, “You are the light of my eyes.” — “Egypt will be as great as all the world.” — “Stability.” —  “Sinai is coming back,” and whatever else. Blah, blah, blah. All of a sudden: “Hey, everybody! El-Sisi is going to hand in his resignation and he’ll run in the elections!”
This time, he did it exactly the right way. He convinced everyone that what he was doing was in the country’s best interest. That he was cleaning it up of terrorism, yeah, as they say. And he took advantage of the fact that people hate the Brotherhood quite a lot. He took that as a point in his interest. But of course, after he had convinced the people, and taken advantage of the media, after he sent the message that it was the people who gave him the mandate, that it was the people who wanted him to be President, and that he never had any designs on power or any intent that he would rule or anything like it, he really became President. 
Or maybe we could say that the people are poor and hardworking. They put their heads down, and went out to party with no-good people. On the blood of the dead. They gave him a mandate on people’s souls.
When we went, we didn’t know we were staging a coup. Was it a coup? That’s up to him! I wish he’d been himself. If he were himself, it would have been better for him. When you were in your position, the people loved you. Ok, cool, ok. We respected you and respected your taking a stand with us, in the form that you were in. Now you want to change your form? We’ll deal with you like anyone else! The same way we dealt with Mohamed Morsi.
You know, in the State, the highest head is the President. It should be that the Army is under him, not the Cabinet. The Army is under him. So sometimes when, like, if a minister doesn’t listen to what the President says, the Army enforces it. So when, like, a mentally retarded president comes and starts doing stuff like Hosni Mubarak did or what Morsi was doing—wasting the country, as they say, starting to waste it—the Army goes and stages a coup in order to take him down. And they’ll take power until they have elections and put someone in his place. That’s it. That’s the meaning of the word coup. 
A coup happened on June 30th, in that El-Sisi took down Mohamed Morsi. That was wrong. He should have come through elections, as they say, “Come through elections and leave through elections.”
We had a president. He was there, and the leader under him turned against him, went and put him in prison. Is that not a coup, or what? The difference is that in the days of... in Hosni's time, people were all of the same opinion. They didn’t want him. But in Morsi’s time, there were people who wanted Morsi and there were people who didn’t want him. Maybe the majority wanted Morsi. They instigated the people that wanted him at Rabaa. They opened fire on them, and screwed them up. There was no respect for the people's opinion. Aren't the people the ones who choose?
Except here, the people used the Army twice: on January 25th and on June 30th. They used the Army. So, in both cases, it’s a military coup. I mean, even January 25th was also a military coup.
That’s a natural thing. In the context of any state that rises up in a state of revolution after a very long period of totalitarian rule, there is a sort of absence of political stability. There might be more than one military coup.
A military coup on a regime that the people support, and that happens in a violent way: going in, taking it down, spilling blood, and killing the existing regime and the personalities in the existing regime, and I don’t know what… forcing a regime on people who reject it… That’s a military coup in a negative sense. But the military coup that happened in Egypt: it’s a positive military coup.
Well, we call it as they say:  “A nostalgic coup." — "A soft coup." — "A nice coup.”
I don’t understand what the problem is with this word! And what’s the argument? I mean, you’ll find people completely rejecting its use when discussing definitions and I don’t know what, etcetera, etcetera. Then the whole thing becomes either you interpret events according to the name you give them at the start, or you describe them for what they are. You get something out of it, right? If you call it this, you’ll understand what happened as one-two-three-four. If you call it that, you’ll understand what happened as one-two-three-four. 
June 30th was not a revolution; it was a cover for a coup. A trick. I can’t call it a revolution. A lot of people were tricked by it, but then they showed themselves to be better than that. A lot of those who were out on June 30th came out after that to Rabaa—after they found out. The proof of that is in Ahmed Maher and Ahmed Douma. They are some of the biggest… they were some of the biggest supporters of June 30th. Now where are they? After they found out it was a military coup, they spoke up and started to dissent. They're in prison now.
Truthfully, June 30th was a revolution and a coup. The Brotherhood was bad. They ruined the country, ok? The Army went… or not exactly the Army, the military leaders… They went and charged people up against the Brotherhood. But why? Not just to revolt against the Brotherhood, but to go back to them again. So the popular revolution that might have been a popular revolution—June 30th—we gave back to the Army again. It turned into a coup.
The way I see it, even January 25th started out as a revolution but ended up as a military coup, too.
All the coups in human history happen at the hand of the Army. They turn on a ruling civilian regime. In Egypt, it’s natural of course… I don’t know if what I’m going to say is right or not, but it’s kind of my feeling… The Army rules, or the deep state that is inside the Army. It’s a part of the Army that rules. So it’s impossible to have a coup in Egypt. It's all a performance: scenes in front of the world, so the world doesn’t say anything about Egypt.