I was around for a curfew a long time ago. I think it was the time of the Central Security Forces incident. The curfew, from what I remember, was on a day that I was going to school. I was in elementary school. When I was leaving the house, they said, "Go back upstairs!" Suddenly I found… I didn't know what was happening… suddenly, I saw people running in the streets, all in one direction. I saw people sitting on top of busses and microbuses. It was a truly horrifying scene, like people were running from something.
I was around for the curfew in 1986. It was… it was scary. At the time, I was in school, and I was happy because they closed the schools. I wanted to go out and discover the world, but what I discovered was terrifying. I found out it was serious. At the time, the idea that you would break the curfew was really, really terrifying. I didn't go out of the house. After I was shot at, I went back home and didn't go out. In 1986, the word didn't mean anything but fear.
At the time, people were really scared of the curfew.
If you want to hear about the curfew at the time of Sadat, on January 18th and 19th, people will tell you, "Whoever went out would get shot." Stuff like that.
I was a kid and my dad told me about the curfew that happened in the 1980s, after the Central Security Forces incident. He told me the he was stopped at a checkpoint when he was on his way home that night. They wouldn't let cars through, so my dad got out and walked. He walked from Masara—a neighborhood before Helwan, called Masara—all the way to Helwan. It was like a really long way, so when I was a kid I thought my dad was kidding me. 
I forgot the whole thing until January 28th, 2011. I was with a group of friends in downtown Cairo. There were assaults and things happening. We were assaulted in one neighborhood and none of us could breathe. So we decided to leave downtown and go to Ramses to get the Metro, and from there get back back into downtown. When we were in the Metro, we found out that the police had run away, and that there was a curfew in half an hour. All I knew about curfews was the story my dad told me when I was a kid: that we had to go home because the Army had come out and would kill anyone they saw in the street.
I remember that, on January 30th, I still didn't understand what I was supposed to do about the curfew. Like, what do they do in a curfew? Before that, what I knew about curfews was they they were something from American movies… excuse me… horror movies where a crime happened in town, so you can't go out at night.
I couldn't believe it! I couldn't believe that people in Egypt had to go home at seven. In Egypt? Egypt? What are we saying, people? This is Egypt!
Of course, at first the whole thing was overkill. Like, I… it was seven o'clock and everyone was stuck at home. No one was allowed out.
It's a really scary word: curfew. At first, I didn't understand it, because I don't get anything where one human tells another human that they have to stay home. I mean, my first comment about it was like, "My dad didn't say I have to go home now, so why is the government or the Army saying I have to go home now?"
Surprise! Half the Egyptian people went out to see the curfew. The whole Egyptian people were standing on the street waiting for the curfew. — "Whatcha doing?"—"I've come out to see the curfew."
The curfew was enforced on us three times. Once, on January 28th; another time during the Morsi incident on January 25th, 2013; and another time after the clearing of the Rabaa sit-in.
I was so happy with the first curfew. I invited my family over to my house. We sat and watched TV. We ate and drank, waited for news and stuff. We watched the protests.
I went all around Cairo to get the feeling of the curfew. I felt that it brought people closer together. At the time, I felt like our decision would be attained. It felt like they were doing something for us when the curfew happened. Our decision. The things that we wanted were getting done for us.
I went out during the curfew, by the way. Like, that's the thing—there were people who didn't go out of their houses at all, even during the day, for the whole time, because their families were scared for them or whatever. But I had to go to work during the curfew. We had passes so that we could go out very late at night. The streets were totally empty, so it was cool. We were searched and we went through.
The curfew during the revolution: the streets were empty, so you could go wherever you wanted.
The curfew was a great time to go out for a walk in your neighborhood.
Someone from the Army stopped one of my friends at a checkpoint and said to her, "Ma'am, stay with us here tonight. There's a curfew and all, so you won't be able to go home." — So she said to him, kidding around, "No, no, let me go!" — He said, "Just give me your number and I'll let you go." — She said, "No way, man, I'm not giving you my number. You're going to let me go." — After a while, after she talked to him for a while, it turned out he was serious. He wanted her number so they could go out together, and then he would let her go home. She said to him, "You will not get my number. Do I have to spend the night here? I'll spend the night here if that's what you want." — He got scared and said, "You know I really respect you, Miss."

Once I was out buying something near the Dar El Salam police station. I live pretty close to there. It was around… it was at the time of Tantawi's rule. There was a low-ranking officer saying, "The curfew is coming in three minutes, and I am going to shoot whoever is still here." — This one regular guy said, "You'll shoot them? You're one of us. You're Army. You're our brother!" — The officer said, "I don't care about any of that stuff. I have orders and I follow them. Whoever doesn't leave here will be shot."
Every other guy went out and pretended to be an officer. Maybe they didn't know how to read or write, but they'd say, "Show me your ID." Because they have an inferiority complex, they want to be officers… and thugs. They were thugs, right? They might stop me in my car when I'm on my way somewhere and say, "Show me your ID," — "Show me your license," — "Where are you going?" — "Why are you passing through here?" You basically have no right to ask me why I'm passing through here, or… or even why I'm walking in the street right now. There is a government that enforces that whole thing. 
Here, the curfew should have been enforced well. I wish there had been a real curfew. What are you doing? Apply it to the young and the old. Apply it to the honorable and the disreputable. If you can't live up to your word, don't say it.
A curfew is something they do just so that people won't go out; so they stay at home and stuff.
During the Morsi incident—January 25th, 2013—there was a curfew in three governorates: Suez, Port Said, and Ismailia. People went out in the thousands, chanting against Morsi, "The Canal cities say: this curfew is not okay!" That's one of the reasons that Morsi fell.
After that came the curfew of the thing that was a revolution or a coup. That was a grim one. It was enforced… on most people.
Of course, there was a big difference between the two curfews. In the eighteen days after January 25th, the curfew had a sense of humor. It was a good thing for me, and I was happy about it. Compared to the curfew after the clearing of the sit-in, it was completely different, in both meaning and material. It was also absurd.
I was at home in Mohandiseen when they cleared al-Nahda Square. Al-Nahda is in Giza, and Giza isn't far from my house, you know? When they cleared al-Nahda, everyone ran away towards Mohandiseen. There was a lot of shooting. For the first time, there was a shitload of shooting. There was a lot of noise for a few more days. Yeah, yeah… so I stayed home for the whole week. I was scared to go out.
The people who live downtown would go out in downtown or maybe to Zamalek, but Mohandiseen is an open place. It's not closed off like downtown or Zamalek. It's open to Boulaq and to Ard el Lewa. It's open to… you know? It's a defenseless place.
As soon as they cleared Rabaa, that was it. People understood that a kind of war had started between the Army and the Brotherhood, so the curfew was there to let them do what they needed to do.
That curfew had to happen. Yeah, it took away some of my rights, you know what I mean? But we're at a stage in which I am obliged. Just like with emergency law. How many years did Hosni Mubarak keep it? Thirty years, and he didn't want to remove it. He'd say, "Because we're fighting terrorism." So it's nothing at all to live in a curfew for a month or so. I mean, it emptied the streets, and made them beautiful. 
The last curfew, after Rabaa was cleared, was one of the most infuriating things in my life. Like, it was really the first time in my life that someone forced something on me like that. Like someone saying to me, "You can't do that." And then, I really can't do it.
Like, there was one of my friends that was with me in second grade and she went to another class. I went to ask about her, and they said, "She went out… she went out during curfew at six o'clock, and she died." When they said no one should go out at six o'clock, we didn't go out. We closed the windows and got scared.
There are a lot of people who died, and no one knows why they were killed. There was a car with two journalists—journalists are supposed to be excused from the curfew. So then, the car was shot at from the Army checkpoint. One of the journalists died and the other went to the hospital, and there is not one convincing explanation for what happened.
I loved the curfew. Why? Well, it made people be… kind of like… every little while, people were like… protests and I don't know what… the wheel of production didn't turn, you know what I mean? So like… when people are… kind of, you know… when you have a motivation behind you, like "But yeah, I need to finish this up real quick before the curfew."
During the last curfew, what happened is we couldn't get any beer, we couldn't go out, and we couldn't do any protests. Your life was totally ruined because nothing was going on.
No one really knows anything about curfews. It's just something they use to crush people.
During the last curfew, I was uplifted, full of joy and laughter. I didn't feel like there was a curfew.
As we see it, the curfew was, as they say, "Go out to the streets." When they make a curfew, we resist them and go out. We're not afraid of anything. For us, the curfew was fun. Whatever they do, we go out. To be more precise, we exasperate them.
The curfew after the Rabaa incident helped people to really get the concept of a curfew, in that whoever broke it got arrested and paid a fine of one thousand and five hundred pounds after they got out. Or, if someone tried to organize a protest during the time of the curfew, they got killed. I remember that in three days of curfew in Suez, more than forty Muslim Brothers died because of protests during the curfew.
The curfew gave us a chance to think outside of our daily routines. You know how there's like a bubble made of quotidian things that happen every day? Unfortunately, I was part of that. We, in the upper class, have that kind of daily life. There's a nightmare beneath it. The bubble burst when the revolution happened, and we saw tons of things that were happening beneath our daily lives.
The curfew was a لايق on what was happening, in that you were not allowed to go out anywhere, in that you had to be home at the specific moment just before curfew. It really affected you. Someone had trapped you in your house, or that تتوهي في الصحرا you were thrown into the desert. So you started to ask yourself a lot of questions. For me, the curfew is tied to a lot of ideas that were shattered: ideas about human relationships, about what's important in life, about how every day we go out into a vortex until we come home again, without thinking about what's happening.



