I have an abaya with snaps, the kind with snaps that has beads here. I have one. Me and my mom and my aunt; the three of us got matching ones.
I'm an Upper Egyptian girl, so I wear an abaya, but it doesn't matter whether it has snaps or not. We just choose from the styles we find at the shop and wear them. It's well known that we wear pants under an abaya, because at the bottom an abaya is wide… it doesn't have to be pants, it could be shorts, in case there's some wind. So you're prepared. 
After the revolution, there was a problem with a girl who went out to a protest, and when the Army wanted to clear it they gathered everyone up. When they were running after her, she fell down, and they wanted to help her up. When they were pulling her up by the hand, the abaya went up, and a large part of it was taken off and her body was bared. 
The battle that day was very strange. There was tremendous brutality from the Army. People were assaulted and thrown in the trash—I mean, it was totally uncivilized. It was probably the second worst battle I've witnessed. 
Whatever happened, however the incident occurred, whatever the rumors about what happened, who assaulted and who didn't assault, at the end of the day a girl was stripped, ok?
Everyone sat around wondering what the girl was wearing. 
No one goes out of her house wearing an abaya—and one with snaps, too—without protecting herself from underneath, in case anything happens. If I'm going out, I know I'm going to هتتمرمط , I know I'm going to jump, I know I'm going to run… because it's a jungle out there, and anything can happen. Will I go out wearing an abaya? Like, if you're going to the gym, do you dress formal? You wear gym clothes! Do you wear flats or sandals or flip-flops? No, you wear sneakers, so you'll be comfortable!
With my respect, with my respect to what happened, I believe that if you are a protester going out to protest, you have to be ready for the responsibility of the place you're going to and what you're going to meet there. She had to wear clothes to suit the place that she knew she was going to. But if you wear something like that, and even… I mean, if you don't wear a t-shirt underneath or… whatever, whatever. Honestly, her personality, her character—I don't like it. But the situation gave the sense that maybe she wanted a problem, to create a certain situation… maybe she wanted to make a commotion.
I'm not going to sit here and defend her and say, "She was wearing something under her abaya." If the girl was wearing a bikini, she'd be the same as if she were wearing a niqab. In both scenarios, she should not have been assaulted. What happened to her should not have happened. In both scenarios, the government's responsibility was to protect her, so that nobody could impose themselves on her or harm her, even if she was wearing something that was not… even if people were against what she wore.  
I can't even imagine that's there a person who saw what happened to her and reacted, "Well, she was naked underneath," — and, "She was wearing an abaya with snaps," — and acting as though she did that on purpose, I mean. That was one of the things that was a true shock for me—that there are people in this society who think that way. It's really sad that a woman was assaulted like that in the street, to the point that her clothes were stripped off, and in the end they blame her.
I was really angry when I saw it. Yeah, everybody who goes out to protest faces the possibility of assault and arrest and that kind of thing, but girls who go out face those things as well as people saying bad things about them! I thought that in the revolution girls were equal to boys—that all of us were going out for the same goal. The same thing could happen to a guy—someone could assault him and strip off his shirt or something like that, and no one would say anything. Why was she wrong because that happened to her?! I mean, are you also responsible for what happens to you, for what people do to you?!
She wasn't wrong, she was just walking down the street. Did she drag herself and strip herself? No! They are the reason it happened to her. The incident tarnished SCAF, and all of us were against it. 
The one who stripped her is supposedly the same one who did the virginity tests, the same one who brought up the justification that she was wearing an abaya with snaps, and the same one who sexually harassed girls. I cannot listen to the claims of a soldier or an officer when they tell me that this girl intended to make a scene to get a photo, while they are the same officer or soldier who catcalls a girl, shouts at her, and harasses her at the Metro station, when they are supposed to be there to protect her.
Everyone participated; boys were talking about it especially. We have something in Islam that says that your husband tells you, "That's shameful," — "Don't go out in that," — and you listen. God said so. But if society tells you, "It's shameful for you to do that," — like, what did she do that was shameful? Did she know that she was going to be stripped? You know, they think one way and I think another. They think in an anti-intellectual way, basically, in an irrational way.
They used to say, "The Egyptian people are religious by nature," and that sort of thing. Nope. It turns out that a large portion of the Egyptian people have nothing but he said, she said, gossip, and all that.  They want to damn her, so they say, "How could she wear an abaya with snaps!" — and, "How could she go out!" — and, "She was naked underneath." That sort of thing…. it's shameful, you know what I mean?
What we have here is a distraction in order to keep our eyes off the real attraction—off of what's really happening. Like for instance, the Africa Cup… anything, any little thing for people to think about, you know? Like, people are thinking about the Haifa Wehbe issue and the whole media and TV is talking about it, in order to turn people's eyes away from true things. I feel like women are always used as a tool for that.
Honestly, it was the first time I ever felt the subjugation of girls in that way. I felt like it was used to break girls. I mean, you're talking about girls, who are half of the groups going out, so you want break them, to tell them not to protest, not to go out. Well, it's the opposite… she was an incentive for all girls to go out again, to go out a third and a fourth time… to go out unafraid. 
After that, whenever I went out to a protest, I wore heavy clothes. I wore layers and stuff, because of what might happen to me.