The revolution was the Day of Rage. It was the day that sparked the revolution. January 25th was just a little thing—a small uprising.
On the night of January 25th, after the police chased us in the streets and cleared out Tahrir Square, Mohamed ElBaradei announced that next Friday would be the Day of Rage—against the police apparatus and the existing regime. 
The Day of Rage was Friday, January 28th. People went out against Hosni Mubarak—to take him out of power.
On Thursday night, the Internet stopped working. There were no text messages. Well, the other important thing is that my phone was working. Yeah, me and my cousin, we were together and both of our phones were working. Yeah. So? There wasn't anyone else for us to call!
We spent time making a lot of signs. On one paper we wrote, "Freedom." On another we wrote, "Egypt is free." On another we wrote, "Bread and social justice." There were around fifteen signs or more. I gave them to Amira to carry, so that if we got arrested, they'd take her, not me.
And we went out on the Day of Rage, and the entire Egyptian people went out with us.
We went out. We were demanding our rights in a peaceful way and everything. We started to… the regime started to take measures of oppression that we had never seen before in our lives.
We went out after Friday prayers, and we walked in Gamaat El-Dowel Street. There were a lot of police officers, and we were sort of scared. So I said, "Let's go walk in the side streets." We kept walking in the side streets until we got to Tahrir Street. There were a lot of people there.
On the Day of Rage, all of the squares in Egypt were full of people. There were millions.
We came from Mostafa Mahmoud in a march. As we were arriving at Qasr al-Nil Bridge, we approached Central Security Forces. We broke the barrier, and we got onto the bridge. Needless to say, there was gas and live fire from on top of Semiramis Hotel. The imam was leading us in prayer. We were bowing down, and the water… they sprayed water from a hose onto us. Still, we held out.
The police were assaulting girls… stripping them, I mean. Tearing their clothes off in front of… the girls were just standing in their bras in the street. There were people… the people of Boulaq Abou al-Illa, who are sort of local people… they'd take the girls and give them abayas to wear in their houses, a shirt or whatever. They let them stay inside. There was one girl staying with a friend of mine… not by themselves, at his family's house… until they were able to take her home. That girl… I still remember how she looked. She'd been hit with pellets next to her eye, and half of her face was black and blue. I'm not exaggerating. She was beaten and her clothes were all torn. I'll never forget that scene.
We weren't afraid of the shooting. We started to make human chains and move towards the Central Security Forces. We قعدنا نعافر Central Security. We attacked them, until they ran away toward the US Embassy. 
We went towards them. We broke the barrier made by Central Security, and when we got into the Square we started to chant, "Bread, freedom, social justice!" People started to cry. We chant from our hearts and cried, "Bread, freedom, social justice!"
This is what happened: We got into the Square. Of course, Central Security was near the Institut d'Égypte. They started running away into Qasr al-Aini Street, and we held out behind them until we reached the Shura Council. We were going to the Shura Council to take down the regime. And God… God was with us. In the Square, there were angels around us protecting us.
The police started to run away from Tahrir Square, one by one. We saw armored cars in the Square. We went in running. We wanted to get to the Ministry of Interior. Not so that we could storm it… I mean, none of us wanted to storm anything. There were police on the roof with guns, and they were shooting. I got to that point, and then I went back to Tahrir Square.
Actually, I was coming from Talkha. I was crossing Talkha Bridge, and there were clashes going on between people and the police. We were stuck… I mean, they trapped us on the iron bridge. There were some clashes happening. When I was there, I heard that the NDP headquarters was on fire. 
We just saw the Day of Rage on television. Then we heard that people's blood had been spilled there, and that the police had tried to clear the sit-ins, and so on and so on.
I went out into the streets, and I saw the precincts being looted. I was thrilled that the precincts were being looted. I saw someone coming out of Ibrahimiya Station with a drawer… an empty drawer. I felt like people wanted to take anything from the police, even if it had no meaning. I also saw people with carloads of stuff. I saw both.
When we were going home, there was a woman walking in the street alone. Suddenly she started screaming, saying that someone had taken her phone. But I was in a state of denial; I couldn't believe that someone could steal a phone in that moment. I felt like everyone was good, and, like, it could not be possible that someone would steal a phone then.
Just after dusk, people started to come out into the streets and form neighborhood watches. They began to secure the streets and the institutions, with each person protecting their own neighborhood.
I was in America, and I spent the whole revolution in America. The only thing that I saw was what was broadcast on TV. Everyone I knew was happy. I didn't feel that it was a day of rage; I felt like people were optimistic. The Day of Optimism. I'm still optimistic, still very optimistic. I'm optimistic that what is supposed to happen is happening.
In my opinion, the Day of Rage was unavoidable. Even if there were a lot of material losses and also a lot of loss of life, it was still unavoidable.
What set off the death, murder, destruction, and everything the country started to witness on that day, was the insistence that no one get into Tahrir Square. I mean, if they had opened Tahrir Square that day… if people had gone right into Tahrir Square, they would have gone in and stayed until morning. Then, it would have been done. Mubarak would have come out and said the couple of words that he said later, and people would have gone home. There wouldn't have been anything called a revolution. There wouldn't have been anything called a Day of Rage.
It would have been a revolution if we had been able to control the Day of Rage. When the keys were in our hands and this country was in our hands, we should have controlled it when we could. But the idea is that what came after the Day of Rage was clusters, and every cluster wanted to be in control… even if just to control themselves. They never reached the level of organizing themselves, or organizing the whole group. They didn't know until after it had been done. So what happened is chaos.
 

