The events that are happening to us now… the ones that seem like a nightmare… I feel like a thing called the deep state drives these events. It reminds me of the movie The Matrix. Like, there's a group of people who live in a shadowy world, making plans. They're the ones who move other people like puppets… puppets who take money, jobs, land, or whatever. In any case, they put the deep state into action.
In Egypt, the deep state is stronger than the President. It's more powerful than any referendum that happens, and more powerful than any constitution. It's stronger than anything.
When the deep state is an institution or an organization, it controls the state and pervades it from the lowest to the highest level.
As long as there is a deep state, and as long as there are institutions that were established long ago—institutions made and driven by the regime—you will never be able to have a revolution. You will never be able to do anything to change it.
When we said, "The people want the regime to fall," it was impossible, because, like, the deep state is more powerful than you can imagine.
The notion that when you look to the head of the regime… Like, for instance, Hosni Mubarak… When you take him down, you think that you've… and I'm one of those people… you think you've done the impossible. It's done! Then you go find out that you didn't do anything. You find out that there are still people—there are still institutions, and those institutions have people. All of those things. When you start to try, when you start to want to change and all that… That's the deep state, in my opinion.
From beginning to end, we don't understand who these people are. Who are the people controlling this country?
We have a president, a prime minister, and a parliament. They're the ones who are supposedly the faces in power, as we see them. But people found out that, no, there's a power under the surface. It's unseen, and it's represented in different elements: intelligence, capitalists, vital organs of the state, the judiciary, the police…
You might say that it's an institution inside an institution. No one knows who manages the state. No one knows where the hidden hands are that impede the revolution… that impeded the goals of the revolution.
At first, the revolutionaries used this intellectual word to describe the struggle with SCAF right after Mubarak resigned, and how they were the ones who were managing the deep state. They said that SCAF was one of the major pillars of the deep state in Egypt.
The Brotherhood used this term to describe something intangible: the thing that stopped them from making any change. In truth, the Brotherhood is a part of the deep state in Egypt, because the Brotherhood is a reformist group, not a revolutionary group. They had someone who rose to the highest position in the country—someone who was able to hold the people who represented the deep state accountable. But in truth, he revered them; he revered all the clear and visible examples of the deep state.
They try to convince us that the deep state is just the Brotherhood. The deep state also exists in the military. Right now everyone who becomes a colonel or a general in the Army is given either the position of adviser or minister or governor. Nothing stops them.
As I see it, the Brotherhood's main artery is fed by poverty and unemployment. By all the inequality in this country; by all the gaps that the State is unable to fill. The Brotherhood benefits, so they are part of the deep state. It's not in their interest to help people change for the better, because if people changed for the better no one would stand with their organization in any way, shape, or form. No one would benefit from their services in any way, shape, or form.
The term deep state refers to this: the old regime that wants to return in full force. It's the state that still wants to brink back National Security. They want to bring back the police as they were, to bring back assault and torture, and bring back everything.
I feel like the deep state is one of the parties with losses in the last three years, so they are trying to get back their losses. They're trying to reemerge. 
When we took out Mubarak, we took out the head, but the tree is still there. The deep state is still there.
There are people who think that the deep state ran everything from the first instant in Egypt. The people that were in the streets starting on January 25th saw with their own eyes that there was no one controlling what happened. Afterwards, there were different domestic and foreign designs that arrived to exploit the event on the ground, and to try to change its course to their benefit. That's something else.
Maybe the deep state is an idea. An idea of control and influence and making huge amounts of money; of collecting wealth to which you have no right.
The whole story starts with the deep state, since we were born. It's the idea of creating a depth for the dictatorship—of creating roots for it in all the pillars of the state, via many different elements. Like, the first element is racism or sectarianism. The second thing is related to the first point: I mean, they distance factions from each other. It's the same thing with religion. There is also something else really important, and that's the idea of dialects. We haven't benefited from the fact that we have thirty cities with thirty different dialects. Add on to that the idea of making strict rules, which make people insipid. The idea is that it's a primitive culture.
The deep state is inside the Egyptian citizen, even when they're revolting against it. The Egyptian people didn't dare take power. One says to the other, "Talk politely to the officer." When they talk, Egyptians say, "Do you know whose son I am?" When they go to break the law, break the regime, and break the State, they say, "Do you know whose son I am?" As if 'whose son' is the objective equivalent that will allow them to break the concept of the state. The deep state is the state that lies within the Egyptian human. They don't know anything other than it, because they were the first to manufacture it. The Egyptian people are surrounded by a valley. In that valley, they've been building a central, hierarchical, authoritarian state for thousands of years. That state has a president. It has a leader, it has a king, it has a sultan, it has a pharaoh… The people always know the leader exists, and they also know the leader will organize their lives.
It's always right in your face. I mean, it's there all the time. It's not deep at all; it's in every detail. They should have called it the state that pretends to be hidden.