We all say, "Democracy."
For Egyptians, democracy is a word with no meaning, because it hasn't happened. Democracy hasn't been achieved. As long as Egyptians don't acknowledge that, we won't achieve it. Or, as long as most people don't know what democracy is.
This way or that, we're already in a democratic country!
There's no democracy. President Hosni Mubarak completely wiped it out.
Before the revolution, people were ignorant. There was a party called the National Democratic Party, right? There were a lot of people in it who understood democracy as stability: a particular regime. Yeah, after the revolution, we still didn't know. Not even now, right at this moment. We haven't found out what democracy is. Not yet. Or maybe, as people say, "We're in first grade democracy." Actually, no. We're still not in kindergarten. 
I think all people deserve to live in a democratic state, but I still haven't seen it, so I have no idea. Does democracy exist? Could it happen? Are we prepared? I don't know exactly what it is. And if it hasn't existed, people are starting to think about it. The idea's around; the foundation is there. Whether or not it will be built upon, there are at least people who are starting to wonder. That in itself is a revolution.
Democracy: the buzzword on every tongue, and the word that is least defined today. Everyone describes it according to their mood. Even developed states with well-established democracies have understandings of democracy that differ from each other, and each one has a model they want to force upon the other.
Every side sees the democracy that suits their personal interests. When we use the term, we may not even understand it.
I've never enjoyed anything called democracy, so the term is new for me.
So what does democracy mean?
Democracy is a part of freedom. Democracy is something we established; it's a human invention. But humans have been free since their creation. I mean, Adam came down from Eden with his freedom. When he ate from the tree, it was with freedom. He wanted to know what the tree was, so he ate freely. He chose with freedom. He was penalized for his freedom; he was told, "This is your freedom. Take it into the world." 
I imagine that democracy is that I do what I want to do. At least that's what a whole lot of people think. That's what democracy is to them. We love chaos and confusion.
The word democracy has a beautiful meaning. Democracy is that I can demand my rights today, within the limits of civility and elegance. There are people today who've gotten democracy wrong, with a great lack of respect! People say, "We want democracy in Egypt." Democracy in that I can curse my president. Democracy to curse, to get on TV and curse the Interior Minister, curse whatever minister on TV, and say, "This is democracy." No, that isn't democracy; sorry, but that's called imprudence.
You say freedom means that I can do what I want to do. So can I assault someone? Freedom! Isn't that freedom? So, what's democracy? Democracy is that I can say something that doesn't harm you. It means that I can say and do things that don't harm others. That's democracy, the simple understanding of it. 
We've understood democracy wrong. Here, people think democracy is the right to curse and be uncivil, to harass girls and get girlfriends, to be rude to girls walking in the street who haven't got their freedom. Like, if we saw a girl walking without hijab and she's Muslim: "She's no good, she's not respectable." — A girl who expresses herself with freedom of opinion: "No one is watching over her at home." — You find a girl who comes to the defense of a colleague who was arrested or killed: "She's no good, she was in a relationship with so-and-so."
People don't understand what democracy is, by virtue of our culture and society. Unfortunately, that's not the consequence of a year or two. It's the consequence of a million years.
Democracy is a term that's hard to use seriously. It needs a long time—a long, long time—to start to be used in a positive way. Democracy has to be built on awareness, not fear. It's always built on fear. Because we're afraid of something, we choose what will protect us from it. In reality, there has to be something frightening in most elections, so that people can go to a certain person to get away from that fear. That person has to be powerful and have authority, and usually he's a dictator. Usually people choose a dictator. A lot of the time, all people want is a new dictator. 
As long as we're a people who want a leader, it will be the leader that sanctions democracy. If you make a law that says when you cross the street you pay a fine, no one will cross the street in the wrong place. The regime will manifest the idea of respect in crossing. Maybe it will start with us being afraid to pay a fine, but after that our children will know that it's not just a matter of money. It's the idea that it's orderly, and that the regime is right. It's the idea that the regime can feed the people anything. If it wants to feed them oppression, it will; if it wants to feed them democracy, it will.
Every dictator calls himself democratic. The truth is it has no meaning.
The government gives you democracy and might judge you for it. They say, "Yes, you have democracy." Then you go and use it, and they grab you, "Come here! Why did you say that?" They take you leisurely. They say to you, "There's democracy. All of Egypt is a democracy!" — I go and say, "Oh good, good." — Leisurely, they come. They take me, and they lock me up.
Democracy means that everyone has a voice, and that voice has value. How do you give value to the voice? With elections. With an elected representative who represents the area where you live. You send your demands to the representative, and the representative takes your demands to the Parliament, and they speak in your voice. In this way you mandate them, so that they speak in your name—as long as you believe they are able, and they care about the  of the people's interests, not just their own.
I'm really sorry, but you can't deprive me of my basic needs and then ask that I follow your leadership. Why would I follow it? I think that's our conundrum. Guys, it's impossible that people can't find anything to eat.. right now, they can't even get a loaf of bread, and then you tell them, "Go vote." 
When was the best time in your life? Wasn't it when Mubarak was in power? In my opinion, it was better. Yeah, he stole and pillaged from us and everything, but we lived in safety. The police were working. If I was sitting here talking with you about something like this, at the time we would have been arrested. It wasn't right! But with people like us, who don't understand democracy well, that's the right thing.
Egypt will not know democracy, either in its history or in its future, except when there is one specific condition: that Egypt enters the industrial world. Democracy is the daughter of industry. That human activity called industry creates the social grades and classes according to distribution of wealth, and distribution of awareness, too. In an industrial system, awareness is distributed according to interests. But the agrarian world does not know democracy. In underdeveloped societies—rural peasant societies—you are confronted with two classes: the serf, or slave worker, and the landowner, the master. There is no third class. Thus, you are confronted with a culture that does not permit a hierarchy; it allows the matter of owning the land and working the land to two parties. So when you go to make a public opinion around the concept of racism, the concept of humanism, the concept of intellectual work, of literary, artistic, and theatrical work, and so on, thereafter we bargain around freedom, its limits and its logic, etc. These are intellectual matters. It's an intellectual struggle, not a class struggle. That's a necessary condition for democracy. So you will never be confronted with the experience of democracy, except if the objective class conditions change in Egyptian society.
Leaving the country aside, how about on the level of the home? I'm trying to learn, and I'm trying to learn on the level of what I possess. I don't have anything but my home and my daughter. What I'm trying to do is that in any decision we make, any plan we come up with…it's not just that Mama decides. She has to be involved with me, and very often I follow her choices. And a lot of the time I tell her, "I'm wrong in that I gave you the freedom to speak your mind." Because you find out, when you try to practice it in order to learn it, that it requires from you a set of skills that we have totally lost. Like how to communicate with another person. How to listen well. How to give space for someone to speak their mind. How to create a kind of interaction between you and someone else to decide together, and for both of you to feel conviction in the decision you make. It's a really difficult process!
Accepting the opinions of others: that's what democracy means in my opinion. I might have two different friends. I'll go to the friend who accepts what I say; if he accepts it, ok, I'll go to the other. That's democracy: the two accepted my opinion. To whoever wants to enforce the word democracy, or freedom: enforce it at home first, with yourself. Then go enforce it with the people, or with someone you want to listen to your opinion. 
Not yet. Not yet, I swear. The time for it hasn't come yet. Not yet. That I can say what I want, when I want? Not yet. Now, each person has democracy with themselves; everyone within their own self is democratic.