Dignity is an important word. The most important thing is dignity.
Give me dignity, and take everything from me. Food isn't important; bread isn't important, none of that is important. What's important is dignity.
Our people love to have a bit of dignity, you know? They know their history. Even the simple people see the temples, the Pharaohs, and all of that, and they say, "Just look at what we were!"
Obviously, every one of us dreams of having their dignity, and it's above everything else. We don't want any humiliation of any kind at all, even if it's just curses.
No Egyptian feels their dignity, except inside their own homes. But there is no dignity outside the home.
For more than thirty years, the Egyptian people have had no dignity. 
I lived through the nineties, so I know something called dignity, and I know how much that dignity collapsed in the period before the revolution. The people were messed up everywhere; they didn't have dignity.
It was one of the basic chants on January 25th: "Bread, freedom, human dignity." Because dignity as a word means a lot to the revolutionaries; it means that no one humiliates them, no one demeans them, and no one breaks their backs.
The Egyptian people regained their dignity on January 25th.
As a citizen, I started to learn what it means to have dignity. The entities that shamed me—the police—also began to learn what dignity means.
The dignity of the Egyptian people came back and then was taken from us again. There was a certain time when countries abroad respected the Egyptian people—after January 25th.
It changed. We had a good framework, and we had… we had an image, we had a goal, we had a framework.
The Egyptian people try to convince themselves that they've regained their dignity.
What happens is that there are people, factions, and institutions who lose their dignity, so they say, "You can't have dignity. Stay beaten down and silent."
I think that there's dignity in all of the European countries, more than any Arab country. To the point that if someone goes into a precinct and is, like, a murderer, they're treated with respect. They're treated like they have human rights. They aren't treated like animals. I mean, we don't have dignity here at all; I don't think we have any at all.
Maybe there is dignity in Egypt for important people—for people's who've got their backs totally covered in this country. But I don't think poor people are treated with dignity. I mean, they have no dignity when it comes to any authority.
There is no dignity for the Egyptian people. They have to find dignity for themselves; they have to give themselves freedom in everything. They can't let anyone enslave them.
Like, no one should stay silent when someone degrades or humiliates them. At the same time, anyone who wants to preserve their dignity should know that the person they face has a psychological problem. They should know that they suffer from a psychological complex, so they can preserve their dignity.
By the way, the subject of dignity is related to the subject of harassment. You know that in the past, if there was, like, a girl who was catcalled in a popular neighborhood, people would say, "Dignity." Dignity—it existed in Egypt.
For me, dignity means that when I'm riding a bus and I find a woman standing, I'm supposed to stand up and give her my seat. That's dignity, and from there I carry on. There are people who have dignity and there are people who don't—anywhere in the world. There are people who respect others, and there are people who don't.
But I think that the dignity of the Egyptian people is getting lost because of the current governments, and because of the political ideas that exist right now on Egyptian territory. 
Dignity has not been achieved up till now.
You'll find in the end that when Egypt is a great and important country, you will have dignity. When it has taken its rightful place, we will have our dignity.

