Before the revolution, what elections? I remember once I asked a question, like, "What are elections?" — "What elections, little girl! Those are just formalities."
Before the revolution, I didn't go to elections. Ever. Not for Parliament or President, or any elections at all. As they say, the process took care of it itself. We didn't have to participate. We knew the result before it came out.
The whole thing is so predictable… pfffffffft… any idiocy… people just go out to party and take pictures. Nothing happens. From the point of view of state institutions, I imagine that the elections are… I think they already have someone in mind. They take ninety-nine percent of the vote. 
On my end, I basically didn't do anything before the revolution. Like, I didn't understand. Like, I knew that talking about anything political was pretty undesirable.
As I see it, the elections that we have in Egypt are, from start to finish, violations by the state and infringements by the people.
I have just one story related to elections. I was born in Helwan, in the 24th electoral district. Since I arrived on Earth, it's been a known thing that the 24th district is taken by the NDP. There's something called workers and something called categories, and workers was always taken by the Military Production Minister. Because Helwan has a lot of factories for military production, the NDP appointed the  Military Production Minister to the government. He would win the workers, and the categories would go to someone else who was allied with the NDP.
The only time I ever tried to go to the elections, I went and saw the line. It was full of tons of factory workers waiting in front of the polling place; they were not even people who lived in Helwan. It was a thing called… They called it collective voting. They'd bring the factory workers on a bus, give them a meal and a voucher to purchase basic food items, and give them half the day off. So I went. I saw four or five buses, and everyone waiting in the line that I was supposed to stand in to vote. Honestly, I left. I didn't have time to waste in a lost battle, as they say.
Yeah, everyone knows about the elections before the revolution. Before the elections, you voted for the President's party, the NDP. Either the NDP or the NDP. There wasn't anything else.
The first attempt to shake things up was the 2005 elections—the Presidential elections after they passed the election law. The law said that it was the first election to allow two candidates, not just one. I remember laughing at the time because all of the candidates were comical. There was this one guy who was around eighty years old and married to a girl who was about twenty. He ran in the elections. He said he was the head of a party, but no one knew anything about him until he came out to run for president. And then he decided that… he came out and said, "I'm going to vote for Mubarak." He's a candidate, and he voted for Mubarak!
I remember at the time I was monitoring the elections for the newspaper. I went into one of the polling places in Sayeda Zeinab, and I saw a woman coming out of the polling station who had voted with ten fingers—I mean, the ink. She went in and voted ten times. The same woman, right in front of the people monitoring the elections! Right in front of the judge and like, everyone. She went in and out, in and out, and I was standing there in disbelief at what was happening.
So obviously I thought that it was a really, really huge performance. 
After the revolution came, after a little while, I got to be a bit more aware. Honestly, everyone at my house got more aware. There were elections after that, and we went out to vote. That was clearly the result of our increased awareness. Before the revolution, we saw ourselves as one thing; after, we started to know more about things and things were more clear. Maybe because of that, I decided then that I had to stop being pessimistic and start to participate… to be more positive in the whole election thing.
Now you feel that you're given a bit of freedom. I might think: I might consider this guy or that or the other. Which is the best one? That one's good, that one does such-and-such in the country, that one is knowledgeable, that one's got whatever… I vote for them.
I don't participate. I don't go to elections. I didn't even go recently when they were saying, "There's a five hundred or one thousand pound fine for whoever doesn't participate in the presidential elections." Honestly, I think the most important thing is to live and stuff, and the elections are like… like, there's nothing in it for us, change or no change. Because I'm not employed. Even when we say we'll vote for someone, they say they'll create jobs, they'll do everything, they'll do stuff, but they never do. Here, there are no jobs. We work for ourselves.  That's what we depend on. When they ask, "Will you vote for your interests or will you vote for everyone?" — I vote for my interests: work.
For instance, I work in education, and we have elections in our syndicate. The candidates come and visit us. Like, they're campaigning. They say things like, "We'll do this or that, but you have to vote for us," and stuff. As soon as we vote for them, they take the position and that's it, thank you very much. They forget everything they said. So I just don't trust anyone in the whole thing. Now, I don't go out to vote unless there's someone… someone who's a source of trust. Honestly, other than that, I don't go.
Egyptians always deal with elections in a really strange way. They either don't go, or they go vote for someone they don't want. I only see them very rarely go to vote for someone they want. 
Sorry, but if you go down in the street and ask anyone, "Who are you going to vote for?" they'll say, "El-Sisi." It's a lost battle. We don't think that things could get better… that maybe some things could change. It's a problem we have. We don't know what we want. There are people who voted in the constitutional referendum who didn't know anything about it. There were a lot of people who went to vote yes so that things would move along. We are people who don't know what we want. It's part of being poor.
We have a problem, in that we're always asking, "Where's the guy who is gonna come take control of the country and take matters into his own hands?" We're waiting for him.
Elections are a terrible way of moving the question away from what people want. You say, "We want this or that." — "Ok ok, yeah yeah… but who do you want?" — People are startled. They sit to the side and think, "Well, who do we want? Who do we want?" Just like that. That's elections.
Elections are a tool with many benefits. But there's another side: they have their own forms that spoil the splendor of the tool. It's like when a knife is made to cut fruit, but someone uses it to slaughter animals. That's how elections are. The tool itself… The tool itself needs… It needs noble people to use it.
We still don't have anything we can do at all. There will never, ever be fair elections. I don't know if just here, or everywhere.
Take a look at the elections in America; take a look at the elections in Britain; take a look at elections anywhere. There are many, many things happening behind closed doors. You find out later that a representative took something; you hear of representatives in Israel that were doing some projects; you hear about it in Turkey; you hear about it in every democracy. That the military industrial complex in where is that… in America… had so-and-so behind it and ومكانش وراء علاج. they weren't behind the cure. The network of lobbies and interests is extremely powerful in elections. So what I'm trying to say is that elections are a distinctly neutral tool that societies have taken and applied with… with anger.
I saw it with my own eyes in recent presidential elections since I was working as a monitor. There was campaigning inside and outside of the polling place, in sight of security. However, they didn't do anything at all. They said to me in exactly these words, "Run and make a report!" According to the law, the officer or the soldier who is guarding the place is supposed to make the report. Obviously, it's not my right to make a report. All I can do is complain. Complain, then go tell the High Elections Committee. Of course, the High Elections Committee won't do anything at all and doesn't even pay attention to what we're doing. Incidentally, the electoral process in Egypt is a complete failure and it can't be fixed. In my opinion, it can't be fixed.
I don't have any trust at all in any elections, ever. Ever.
The meaning of elections still hasn't changed.
Before the revolution is the same as after. Elections are always just a picture: one dimension. There are no fair elections. There were no fair elections in the days of Abdel Nasser, not in the days of Sadat or in the days of Hosni Mubarak, and not after the revolution.
Elections before and after the revolution: the process of forging people's votes.
An empty thing. A performance like everything else.

 
 





