All our lives, we've heard about emergency law. Nothing ever changes.
Before the revolution, emergency law was known to be unjust. It existed just so they could say, "Stop and show me your ID." They could arrest you and put you in prison, just because the law existed.
Like, I can take you from your home anytime, even if you're lying in your wife's arms. Even if I don't have anything on you.
It appeared a long time ago, in Abdel Nasser's time or Sadat's… around that time. They made it so that anyone who suspects anyone else of being a terrorist… or what they call a terrorist… so they could take them and torture them and put… they'd put rods in places where they shouldn't be put… like, they'd pummel you to a pulp, and I'm not going to say exactly how they'd pummel you. 
Anything could happen to you under the guise of emergency law.
I don't have a problem with any officers; of course I've got no problem, because they have to protect us. My problem is with emergency law.
I could be walking in the street as a totally respectable guy who's done nothing wrong, who's totally clean, right? Anyone could stop me, take me, and say, "I'm suspicious of you."
I'm really with the idea that you need to keep yourself safe, right? So you can take thugs or people who are destroying the country and stuff. But you need to differentiate between thugs and good people who haven't done anything wrong.
Of course there was a whole lot of misuse of the law to create a kind of terror. Like, the point of emergency law was to create a sort of absence of social security.
The problem for me is that people were really oppressed by it. Because of emergency law, people were really afraid to walk around at night… just because they were afraid of something called emergency law, or curfew.
One of the goals of the revolution was to cancel emergency law. It was cancelled for a certain period of time, and then SCAF came and put it back in place. They kept using it, too.
It was cancelled and put back, but with a different meaning, including a different name: war on terror. Fighting terrorism.
And up till now, we live with it. The proof is that up till now, people are still being taken from their homes.
For me, emergency law doesn't make a difference in anything, because I know and I'm certain that the police state can do whatever it wants, whether it's legal or not. Up till now, it's still happening. We don't have justice in the judiciary, whether there are sound laws or not. At the end of the day, they do what they want. At the end of the day, I still see people oppressed right in front of me. There is so much injustice. People are put on trial arbitrarily. There are so many harmful people causing catastrophes in this country and getting away with it. So, the problem is with enforcement of the law, not with the law itself.






