Before the revolution, I thought that the regime [system] was something like a computer system or a school system. Then I learned that the word regime means the ruling entity, the people who govern, or the government. Before the revolution, I never heard "fall of the regime." Even in the days of Mubarak, when he said that his son would take over. 
For me, the first time I ever heard "fall of the regime" was on January 25th. I was going out to the Square just on the basis of the demands that had been made, and in the march that I was part of I heard people saying, "The people demand the fall of the regime." Out of shock, I didn't repeat it. I was talking about change and reform and that sort of thing, not anything about the fall of the regime.
Yeah, that chant came in degrees. At first there were people demanding the end of unemployment, people demanding bread and life, people demanding freedom and social justice. Gradually the slogan came: "The people demand the fall of the regime."
That was the slogan in the first days of the revolution. Afterwards, because people in the Square were being directed, they said, "The fall of Mubarak," or that Mubarak should leave, or because of personal identification. As I see it, that was the first evidence that there were infiltrators in all of the squares, trying to trick and use the people who were not intellectually organized. 
Before the revolution, my knowledge of anything having to doing with politics was pretty much really weak—probably nil. So that chant was one of the most clear things to me. I understood it; I felt like it was one of the things that united people the most. It's something I really love.
It increased a lot after the revolution and was repeated with every successive government. People said, "Fall of the regime. Fall of the regime." I think, too, that people think the regime is just the governing authority—I mean just the ministers—but they don't know that the regime exists in all the state institutions. There is a corrupt system in every last one of the state institutions. So, when you take out the ministers and just get some other ministers in their place, a lot of people remain at the bottom—at the foundation. Every time you change someone at the top, they appear again and do the same thing they did before. Because of that, the regime didn't change.
Fall of the regime means you take out the complete regime and everyone that's in it—whether they are ministers, the parliament, or the President. 
Fall of the regime is a thing we didn't know how to do, because we concentrated the regime into one individual. But the regime is a complete system.
There are some people who look at it from the direction of, say, anarchists, who don't think a regime… who object to the idea of a regime and want to take it down. But it's clear that when people were taking down the regime, they weren't aware of the meaning of "fall of the regime." They merely intended to take down the ruler, but they don't have a problem with the idea of a regime.
The regime fell.
No, it didn't fall.
No, no—it fell.
No, it didn't fall. Nuh-uh!
The regime fell. The revolution took it down! And for anyone new who comes: the people have learned. The people now after January 25th are different from before January 25th. When a dictator comes, they'll know that these people are aware and forewarned, even though thirty-five percent of them are illiterate, or thirty-five million are uneducated. But God bless them, they're political geniuses. They speak up, you know?
We didn't take down the regime; the regime still stands with all its might. Due to our own stupidity, we didn't change the regime. The stupidity of the youth—I won't talk about anyone else. We celebrate when we remove the head. We don't know that the head basically has a hundred heads.
We took down the regime but it came back with a few really nice plays. There was a time when we were close, but we were fooled.
The regime in Egypt is stronger than you think. We basically don't know the system in Egypt and how it works. It's impossible to take it down without knowing it. That's what we found out after the revolution. 
We took down Mubarak, but the military regime still exists… or more precisely, SCAF and the senior leadership who benefit from the status quo. We cut a branch from the tree, but the tree is still there. 
At any time, the fall of the regime remains and is a required task. The regime will continue to exist as long as the Egyptian people and their humanity are exploited. As long as workers still struggle to find jobs.