Linguistically, felool means the people who lost the war, and prefer to escape.
Like, they'd be from specific groups that were in a war and were defeated. The side that was defeated would spread out in undisclosed places and start to defend themselves. Ok, so, what'd they try to have happen? Riots and upheaval, and whatever else they could do to exhaust or annoy the other side.
This word came right out and hit us in the head after the January 25th Revolution.
I want to understand the word felool. Basically, what does it mean?
It was used to mean Mubarak's regime: the ones who benefited from his rule and the former regime, which was during the time of the former president.
So basically, does felool mean anyone that is now in the National Democratic Party? The NDP has extremely honorable people in it—very important people who made huge important factories for Egypt. People who've built apartments; who manage many, many apartments!
The felool are the felool of Hosni Mubarak; they don't have to be part of the NDP. 
Well, like, we can't call every single person in the former regime felool. There were people who just wanted an NDP membership card; there were people who just wanted to get it as an immunity. If someone were to stop them at a checkpoint and interrogate them, they'd say: "No, I swear, I'm part of the NDP."
Felool means someone defeated, and I'm not defeated. I'm one of the people who was in that organization, alright? And I was never put in front of a court. I was never charged with anything. No one pressed charges. No one did. No one! And everyone swears this person is a good person. You are depriving me of my rights when you have a revolution and say, "I want justice and I want democracy." There's no way that democracy tells anyone, "Don't do your political work," without there being a charge.
Not everyone who was in the NDP should get the maximum and be stripped of their political rights. No, that's not right. But now people are saying all kinds of things about Ahmed Ezz. Look here, Ahmed Ezz was… he had a ton of steel, tons of steel, and the State gave him lots of land. It was like that. He did so much!
Ahmed Ezz was one of the most significant felool in the country. For a short time, he was one of the prominent people controlling the national economy. He controlled the steel commodity in this country. That was a legendary thing. Like, how does one human being control the national economy? Aren't state institutions supposed to control the country? Aren't they responsible?
Whoever made up the word felool should have made it to mean everyone—even civil servants, even cleaners. If I'm gonna judge more than seventy or eighty percent of the Egyptian people, every single civil servant and every single person born or living during the Mubarak era is felool.
But supporters of Mubarak and of the former regime aren't escaping or anything; they are pervasive in the state. What are they running away from? We're the ones running away! So they're not the felool. We are.
I understand the word felool as the faction that follows the regime. Ok? So you're talking about Mubarak's regime: his felool are around. So what about Morsi's rule? His felool are around, too. I discovered that this word felool should also be applied to every government that left and was followed by another, and thus became felool.
There are two kinds of felool now. After the January 25th Revolution, they appeared as Mubarak's regime or its followers. After what happened on the 30th—whatever that was— the Brotherhood felool appeared. 
In my opinion, the word felool is absurd, and was invented by the Brotherhood. Because the whole thing wasn't about the old regime; no, it's about the wealth of Egypt being concentrated in the hands of specific group. This group are the ones who own the Egyptian economy.
There are two kinds of felool: one who wants stability, and the other who has everything. They have the money; they have everything. Not everybody… just people who are filthy rich.
In my opinion, felool are the people whose interests are connected to the interests of the old regime. They are members of the NDP and its beneficiaries, small and large traders, and the most formidable capitalists. There may be among them those who brutally murdered in order to repress the revolution, and others who tried to hide the benefits they got from the regime in the shadows of the last thirty years—direct benefits in return for helping to exploit the community. They are essentially the scourge of social justice, upsetting the balance because they've taken all the economic rights. They are the clan that benefits. They are the economic power.
They were present, ruling, and taking positions in the State. So they are with them, following them, in order to return to the positions they were in, so they come to rule again.
After June 30th, they certainly came back more powerful than before, and ultimately they… they have almost secured their pillars in the state.
They are now trying as much as possible to return, with a new direction, in a new form. But I don't think the Egyptian people will allow them to return another time.
They are strong now, and they've made a political decision. They exist in the ranks of the capitalists and the NDP, and in the ranks of the Armed Forces. Those are the true felool. Likewise, the students who enter the Armed Forces or the police by nepotism are felool, because their interests are tied to the interests of the old regime. Nepotism is itself the political regime; their regime is still strong in its presence.
There was someone I worked with. He was a regular civil servant who couldn't reach a high rank. His education and talents wouldn't allow for that. Before the revolution, the guy was stealing from bakeries and giving to the people in charge. He would sell a sac of flour that the the bakery bought at the subsidized price of three pounds for one hundred and twenty pounds or so… an amount like that. So, of course he got a good position at work. What happened is that the guy was moved and went back to a low position again, so he wasn't able to steal anymore or anything like that. Things around us were getting fixed, and we noticed it. But after what they call June 30th, that guy came back and became the administrative manager, and now he's been promoted to Deputy Minister. What can we do? That's just an example. An example of the felool I'm talking about, that I've experienced in my life.  
Until now the country has felool in it, right? And by the way, in the era of the Brotherhood, not all felool were taken out of their positions. Nothing really happened. They were still present and working, and they knew how to work until they got to this point. You know what I mean.


