The first thing we thought of when the clashes first started on January 25th was a hospital in the Square. I was with a doctor and we were talking about how, in the event of clashes, there are injured people, and killed people, and that we had to find a way to aid them. The idea of a hospital in the Square spread because getting the injured to hospitals meant they were in danger of being arrested or put in prison.
Whenever we were in clashes, incidents of assault or whatever, we got together bandages, cotton, vinegar, medicine… We made a specific place called a hospital in the Square to treat the revolutionaries, to treat the injured, to treat the people who were injured in the protests.
The hospital in the Square started with very few resources. It started with a group called Doctors Without Borders. After the Day of Rage, a delegation of Muslim Brothers began organizing with us. We started by bringing basic medical supplies to the hospital in the Square itself.
We made the hospital in the Square with very few resources. We tried, as much as we could, to aid the injured: those who were suffocated by gas, those who might have been shot by pellets or live fire. Of course, we saw all kinds of injuries at the hospital in the Square, including dead people. Of course we couldn't save them because we didn't have the resources. No one helped us; we were the ones helping. Needless to say, we were self-funded. Whoever could brought things. 
We were met with a very difficult day at the hospital in the Square: the day of the Camel Battle. We couldn't get as much as a needle into the hospital in the Square. The Army, with their ambulances, completely refused to give us anything. We asked more than once if we could take their ambulances. They even said, "No, that's forbidden. We need an order from the top leaders in order to be able to give you anything." What could we do? All of the entrances to Tahrir Square in front and at the back were closed by thugs, and anyone who came in or out was searched. We couldn't bring in food; if someone just had a bag of food, they'd be searched. So we had a mission to bring medical supplies from Tawfiqiyya Market. That was the difficult thing. We kept going around the Square in order to get in. We couldn't get in. There were thugs stopping everyone and asking, "Where are you going? Where are you coming from? What are you doing?" So we decided to go through a door to a building near Tahrir Square. There's like an entrance, and the doorman was there, and he's the only one who said, "I can get you through, via the people of the neighborhood and stuff. I've got two other doormen like me and stuff, and we like the revolution. We like what's happening." So that guy took a lot of medical supplies from us, and he was, like, the link. He was able to get the supplies from Tawfiqiyya Market to Tahrir Square. 
I went to the hospital in the Square more than I went home. I think I got injured every time I went out; whoever was in power, I got injured.
I mean, I was really glad for the doctors that were with us. There were doctors from every country. They were, of course, respectable people, and they participated by coming from their countries to treat us, because they thought that we were in the right, going out to demand our rights.
The most dangerous room was inside the hospital in Tahrir Square, and, actually, no one knew that it was there. It was the Internet and media room. The room was responsible for conveying everything that happened in Tahrir Square and uploading it to the Internet at the time when the Internet was suffering from a lot of interference, at the time when communications were cut, and at the time when nothing was being shown on TV for anyone. So we basically put the media network in the middle of the hospital in the Square, as though they were doctors. And no one knew they were there, or what they were doing.
