Activist was, like, a word that existed before the revolution, but they were few and we were few.
We had like three or four in Parliament who were in the opposition and who said that they were in an oppositional party. Before they got into Parliament, we used to call them political activists.
If we look to the past, yeah, there were activists in Egypt in the nineties and in the seventies. They were activists in that they were leftists and opposers of the regime. They were put in prison—put in prison and tortured in Abdel Nasser's prisons. It's not a new word or anything.
Activist is a very mysterious word for me. Is an activist someone with a particular value, just someone who goes out with people, or someone who finds a solution? What exactly is an activist?
Linguistically, the word activist means someone who moves with force, and is full of life and activity. It comes from the word activity. 
We used to study it in chemistry. It's something that might move.
The term has been around for a long time, but the people who're called activists are very few. Now, any so-and-so in any news is a political activist… so-and-so is a social activist… whatever kind of activist they are. 
I swear, I think it's a media word: political activist, rights activist, watermelon activist… all of those names. 
The word activist was used for the youth who go out to a lot of protests, and who sit in cafés talking all the time about the revolution and about politics. So they're called political activists. The individuals who keep on going with politics, who talk about it, who talk about it a lot, whose minds are always working on politics. They're called political activists.
With the jubilation at the revolution's victory, with the success of the revolution, a part of the youth turned into political activists.
We've become ninety million political activists, and not one of us understands a thing. I mean, we've just started talking and that's it. Any worthless person talks… talks about politics. We've all started to understand politics, except actually none of us understands anything.
I myself don't like the word political activist. I mean, anyone who goes to prison or gets on a TV show is a political activist. I might be a revolutionary—I like the word revolutionary—but I don't like the word activist.
It's weird, like, a political activist. I know there are political leaders, I know there's the leader of such-and-such political party, I know there are members of the Dostour Party, members of the Wafd Party, members of such-and-such party, but I don't know anything called a political activist. I might say that I'm a development researcher—it's known to be an occupation—I'm a university professor, I'm a development specialist, I'm a development consultant, I'm a photography expert, I'm a journalist… but, I'm a political activist?! Active in what?! This is one of those utterances that came from the Brotherhood. So now everyone says, "I'm a political activist."
So that they can go to the media and talk about it. So that they can go on TV and introduce themselves, maybe get a bit famous. Who does that stuff? The media.
Activist is a real nice word, with absolutely no meaning at all. Everyone gets some number together and says, "I'm going to make a case." They go make some groups on Facebook and feel like they're Che Guevara.
For me, they're not activists—they're protesters. Activists call for a lot of things besides protests—a lot of things that are more important, like going out to raise people's awareness, to work with people in public, in their homes, and in factories. Like, they try to get momentum for the cause they support or oppose.
Can you imagine that for three or four years the whole media was with such-and-such political activists, interviewing them and talking and debating and all that… three years, and they themselves never got people to understand what a political activist is. Like, no one once thought to say, "Hey guys, by the way a political activist means such and such, so no one gets it wrong." They left it, so it got understood wrong. So yeah, thanks a lot. You know, save yourselves. Either you say the right thing, or someone else—the counterrevolution or whatever other faction—will say the wrong thing, or make people understand the term in the wrong way. You get what I mean? The word itself got distorted, so if you go on TV now and say that you are a political activist and so on, even if you're respectable, they're going to say a lot of crap about you.
My understanding is that an activist raises my awareness. They understand politics better than I do, and they get on TV to help me understand what politics is, which minister is in control of what, and what they should do. They help me understand. Honestly, there is only one who convinced me, just one: Hamdi Qandil. And, because he was saying the right thing, he got kicked out of Egypt. He was on every Monday. He'd get the newspapers and the headlines and talk about them. He'd discuss them, and on a State TV channel. He went like that… pfffffffft… they threw him out, "Get out of here, you're talking seriously! No, get out of here because we want a liar."
An activist is supposed to have a word or an opinion that doesn't change; I mean, their opinion doesn't change if anyone puts pressure on them. An activist is educated. An activist understands politics well. An activist has experience… political experience. A political activist might be a writer, a journalist, a broadcaster… they might be a lot of things. They might be an engineer or a doctor, but the idea is that they know how to get information to the people, to get information to the regime or the entity above, to tell them politely that we don't agree, with respect and without سف in any of it.
An activist always criticizes governments, and at the same time makes street movements easier. I mean, an activist is more aware, so they can help people understand how to move.
Unfortunately, I hate this word activist. Being an activist doesn't mean doing something specific, but for me, I'm waiting for some result from this activity. I want to see results—something tangible, something I can hold in my hand. You're not an activist just because you're moving in a closed circle.
Seriously, from my perspective, Alaa Abdel Fattah is an activist, Douma, those people… because those people believe in something and are destroying themselves for the thing they believe in. They are assaulted and tortured, destroyed and fucked up. That's an activist. Che Guevara was an activist. 
An activist is a matter of personal character. Not anyone who can't find work is an activist.
Most of the people who're called activists really bother me, even if I agree with a lot of things they say. But their speech always seems really annoying and kind of arrogant. They don't know how to speak the same language as the majority of people. There's always this part of them: "I understand, and everyone else is a cow who doesn't get it." Well, you're supposed to have an issue, try to raise awareness, win people over, and that sort of thing, so it would be natural for you to speak the same language as them, I mean.
After the revolution, there are activists; there are a lot of activists on different levels. There are activists in culture, in politics, in the arts, and in development. I believe that the greatest gain in the field of work for people in Egypt is political frustration. After the revolution, a great number of youth decided that, in order to overcome our frustration and pass through it, we would go out and work with people in public, see a quick reaction, and get back a positive psychological result. 