Fifty dollars probably originated with me.
On January 28th, 2011, there just happened to be fifty dollars in my wallet, along with some Egyptian money, my ID, and some other stuff. The fifty dollars was in a pocket all by itself in the wallet.
I got arrested in Tahrir Square half-an-hour before people got there.
I got arrested, and they put me on a microbus in the Square. They searched me. They took my camera and my ID. They took the money out and put it in my pocket. They took my phone and took out the SIM card. When the guy was searching me, he grabbed my wallet and said, "This leather isn't necessary," and threw it on the floor of the microbus under the seat. Obviously, I didn't care about the fifty dollars, because I'd been arrested. Even more, I didn't want them to know or find out that there were fifty dollars in the wallet. I thought it could be a problem for me.
They moved me from the microbus to a paddy wagon. After a while they came and called for me. "Where's the guy with the camera?" So I came out and they took me to the Cairo Security Director. He was in the Square at the time. He asked me, "What do you do?" — I said, "I'm an artist." — "So go home," he said. — I said, "But what about my camera and my bag?" — He said, "Take your things and go home." Of course, the wallet was lost in the microbus. After that, I saw them talking in the media about fifty dollars. I imagined that someone found my wallet and the fifty dollars inside it, and then went to the officer and said, "They're getting fifty dollars to go there."
They said we were paid fifty dollars. I didn't get fifty dollars. 
It happened during Rab'aa too. They said, "Sexual jihad," and they said every person got paid two hundred pounds to go to the demonstration.
They said everyone in Tahrir was getting paid fifty dollars—in some cases, it was fifty euros—and a KFC meal. That's the picture that the authorities paint, along with the state media too. It's always acceptable to condemn anyone who opposes. Even now, it's still the same attitude.


