Did I hear this word before the revolution? Yeah, in the days of Abdel Nasser. Anyone who opposed him was foreign fingers. And what else? A few infiltrators.
Before the revolution, we didn't say, "Foreign fingers." We said, "Conspiracy." We said, "Spies." We said, "Skirmishes here and there."
During Mubarak's rule, he would say, "There are foreign fingers playing around in this country."
Like America for instance, Qatar, the Emirates, whatever. They'd get the name of a foreign country and say that it was messing around in this country, trying to destroy it. Or, that they had agents in this country attempting to destroy it.
The first time I heard it was on January 24th, 2011 on a TV show. Everything was about the nations that hate Egypt: the New Middle East, these new inventions that have come about… They were referring specifically to America, and uhhh… Israel. After a little while the nations developed, meaning some nations were added and some removed. Like, at one point during the revolution, the E.U. was among the foreign fingers. Now the E.U. has been taken off and Qatar is among the foreign fingers. In its condition, I'm expecting that America will be taken off after a bit. Maybe soon they'll say Ethiopia is one of the foreign fingers.
After the revolution, we're not just going in with fingers. Now we're going in with two hands and two feet. I mean, the whole thing has gotten out of hand. Unfortunately, I can't even count how many countries they're bringing to our attention right now. Honestly, I don't understand if it's normal that they're bringing this to our attention? Or is it because we really feel like there are a lot of conspiracies?
The word foreign fingers makes people think you're targeted. This country is a target. It's paradise, and the people who went out on January 25th are sons of bitches.
It's someone to blame. Everyone who fails to govern the country says, "Foreign fingers." The Brotherhood did it as soon as they took power. They liked to say, "There are foreign fingers playing around in this country." And Morsi liked to say, "I will cut off any fingers that I see—and I see some fingers playing over there."
Whenever politicians come on TV and say, "Foreign fingers…" I mean, you're talking to the people! Maybe you're being sarcastic, or maybe you don't understand it, but if you want to tell us that there's a group, say, "There's a foreign group," — "A number of foreigners…" — Yeah, like that. But don't say fingers! Fingers has another meaning!
You just can't go around talking as the nation's president… you just can't use obscenities and say, "There are fingers playing around." It's not right! Who wrote those speeches for him? I mean, right now Mubarak and his sons have been in prison for more than two years, and at every hearing they graciously and respectfully respond to the judge—with total respect, elegance, and charm to the judge. Mark my words! You can't get someone who's spent three-quarters of their life in prison and then get them to govern or be responsible for the State.
Now, too. The people who rule the country like to say, "There are foreign fingers." That the Brotherhood are American agents, and I don't know what else.
It's basically a trivial word, but that doesn't mean that there aren't really people abroad who are trying to harm any regime in Egypt. Because they want to rule the world, not just their own country.