You know freedom. Everyone knows freedom. There’s nothing better than freedom.
On January 25th, I heard the word in the Square. It started after we were in Tahrir Square. There were Salafis, Muslim Brothers, jihadists, Christians, liberals and I don’t even know who else. We stood there and asked ourselves, “What does freedom mean here?” We started finding out that we saw it differently.
Freedom: it’s like openness, perhaps, when the world’s a bit open. The freedom to act. My personal freedom. My actions as long as they don’t hurt anyone.
I think the word simply means that I’m free as long as I don’t harm anyone. As long as I’m not the reason anything happens to anyone.
Freedom is a circle inside the circle of safety. When I talk, I talk about the circle of safety first, and then I talk about the circle of freedom.
Freedom is like when someone can be in the street without anyone bothering them. When you can go anywhere without someone asking,  “Where are you going?" — "Where are you coming from?" — "What are you doing?” — Ok, I have my ID with me, my proof is with me. “Here’s my ID.” — “Ok, there’s your ID.” That’s freedom.
In my personal opinion, the idea of freedom is that a human being can realize their own complete humanity. If I, as a human being, would be happy to do such-and-such, I should be able to do it. I shouldn’t be stopped from doing it by poverty or any authority, and I shouldn’t be stopped by violence or whatever. What I want to do doesn’t harm anyone. This is is my personal life, and that’s freedom.
Life without freedom isn’t life, for any human. Not a woman or a man, or anyone.
Freedom in my opinion is accepting the other. Peaceful coexistence for all. That we all accept each other: Christians, Muslims, and any other religion. We're able to live together, and any political outlook is able to live with another. I can express my ideas and my opinions with freedom, without tracking or surveillance.
In my opinion, freedom means that you’re free except if you cause harm. So, as long as I don’t harm your freedom of mobility, I don’t harm your making a living, I don’t harm you in things that are, like, at the crux of the matter, I don’t impose my opinion on you by force, and I don’t do any of those things… I respect the law, so ok, why are you upset?
People understand it differently. In the name of freedom, you could be hurting people or hurting a group of people. The things that used to be forbidden and that I do now without anyone judging me: that’s freedom. 
So what is meant by freedom? Personal freedom or freedom of the world’s peoples?
Maybe a thousand things could go under freedom, right?
Like political or social freedom. Also, personal freedom, as they say.
There’s freedom as in freedom of the state.
Freedom of creativity without restriction. Freedom of expression without restriction. Freedom of mobility without restriction. Even freedom of relations with others without restriction.
Women’s freedom is something else. Women’s freedom is the freedom to move in the street without anyone harassing me, the freedom to express myself without anyone silencing me because I’m a woman, my freedom to create and to express. And among the freedoms that men have, the freedom of choice in how I will have sex.
We dreamed—I, and a lot of other people—we dreamed that the word would be realized in Egypt.
Certainly the concept has evolved in the era in which we are in, in the modern era. Of course, the media says that this freedom is Western freedom. There was a time when they would say that this freedom is one of the terms brought in from abroad in order to demolish the state and demolish the institutions of the state. You know, things like that.
The freedom that exists in Egypt is just a nominal freedom. Like for example, I am free to eat or drink what I want, you know what I mean? There are freedoms that people have had for one hundred thousand years, and people keep living with them. Those are the freedoms that exist here.
But the freedoms of the modern era: the ability to challenge, the ability to make a statement, the freedom to stand up against injustice, against the regime… They don’t exist.
The chaos that exists in Egypt leaves a person with more freedom in daily life: to eat, to move around, to buy that, to do this.
We don’t have any freedom at all. There’s no freedom of opinion, no freedom of expression, nothing at all. It’s just survival of the fittest, and the strong beats the weak. 
I don’t see freedom. I mean last week for example I went out with a scarf. I was scared that someone would see it in my bag because they know that whoever wears these scarves is a member of either April 6th or the Brotherhood. But I’m neither this nor that. I’m independent. I am an Egyptian.
Freedom is in the other’s logic, not in my own logic.
Meaning: the idea of freedom is in the family, it’s in the society, it’s in your relationship with your husband or your boyfriend, it’s with your siblings.
Freedom is a mutual thing. I give him his freedom, and he gives me mine. When he sees something, he won’t think it’s strange. He might see me dancing all night till dawn, and he’ll say, “It’s not weird.” Why? I give him his freedom. The circle of freedom, it’s one circle. Everyone orbits around it, like the stars roam around the planet.
What is the social freedom that I can attain and that is available to me in a society with certain customs and traditions? As an Eastern society, devout in all its factions, whether Christian or Muslim? It bears a kind of responsibility: I am free, so I’m responsible for my decisions.
I’ll give you an example. We were a group of young people hanging out, and among them were some that I didn’t know. There were only about two Egyptians there. So here's one of them saying that he's going to put on 'queen dress' and go out to Tahrir Square to demand the rights of gays and lesbians. Of course the whole discussion was exasperating. “Do you even know what are you saying?!” He was really serious. He was Egyptian, a young Egyptian. So I was like, “What are you talking about in the cultural context of the society that you’re in?” I said, “This is how you’ll beat the revolution to death!” Because I have a cultural and civilization context that I live in, ok? I have my customs and my traditions. I have a society far from looking anything like him, in its majority.
The community pressures people into taking a certain path. I feel like there's a social pressure, more than even political. We're always trapped in something. All of my life I’ve tried to live in a way that I'm free. My family didn’t want me to travel abroad to study. I spent more than a year trying, trying, trying… Finally, I applied by myself. I fought and then I got a grant. I mean, you understand, for this little thing you find yourself doing something enormous. Just for something that's supposed to be so simple.
Now, I’m gonna to do what I want. But I have to be prepared to run into problems with people when I’m doing what I want. Because people aren’t going to let me do what I want do. People have a problem accepting difference, before the revolution and after. I might think that I’m free to do something, but you’re opposed to it just because you don’t think you can do it yourself. So, you won’t let me do it.
It’s very unfortunate, but freedom in Egypt takes one of two forms. Either it’s freedom with limits, where religious and moral limits are imposed by whoever believes in them, or it’s the other kind: I’m free to be a thug, to go the wrong direction on a one-way street, free to drive an eighteen-wheeler and park it in the middle of the street, free to say to you, “Don’t come to this neighborhood again, ever.” The freedom of thuggery.
Those sons of bitches in the couch party: “Is it freedom to smash and destroy, to be uncivilized in the street?!” I mean whose idea of freedom is that anyway? It’s obvious there’s something wrong with your head. I wish I could understand what’s happening inside your brain!
Before the revolution I was more free. I mean, I was free. There wasn’t anything bothering me; my mind wasn’t occupied with things; there was security. Freedom, what about it?! There has to be security. There has to be security. I’ll go along with the law, but don’t bother me! I mean, I’m telling you things that we don’t even know how to do.
The uneducated citizen uses freedom to mean chaos. Suddenly, everything is permissible. There’s no way that the people can have no freedom at all, be frustrated and depressed, have tons of political and economic and social problems, in every sector, and suddenly all at once become angels. It doesn’t work like that. 
To most people, freedom means making a living. Don’t go talking to them about democracy and elections, referendums, and all that bullshit. They’re hungry!
In Egypt, we have a people that doesn’t want freedom at all. They want someone to come beat the crap of out of them and rule them.
Our country has a long way to go for freedom. But after the revolution, there's more freedom. There's more freedom of expression and it’s clearer. But these days it’s being repressed. 
There’s no room for freedom under the rule of a tyrant. None of them have anything in their book called freedom. It’s like they can’t rule the country while the people feel their freedom. The people have to be enslaved and feel that they’re weak.
We took our freedom after the revolution. There was pressure on us. Injustice. If you were standing on the side of the road trying to get a ride, someone’d say, “What're you doing standing there?" — "Who are you waiting for?" — "Who’s your father?” Asking you all kinds of strange questions. They might see you on the street and stop you… stop you and take you in the paddy wagon, maybe keep you locked up for a week or two. Whatever they felt like doing… whatever. But years ago they ran away. The government ran away from here. They left because it wasn’t working. The way we see it, we’re better off. We're the people of this place, and we protect it. No one complains about Nuweiba. We took our freedom.
Freedom comes from inside the individual, not from outside. You have to believe in your freedom, and we're not convinced of ours.
After the revolution, I’m one of the people who felt their freedom. These past three years, I would say my opinion. I went out and participated and said, “I want this." — "Stop that." — "I don’t want that.” For those three years, we had that kind of freedom. But now we’ve gone back to the beginning. There won’t be any freedom. If we take a look at what’s happening now: whoever comes out and says their opinion is stopped and… is killed.
We’ve gone back to the damn—I don’t want to curse—worse and uglier than before. There is no freedom anymore. Here’s an example. When someone says, “I just sympathize with Rabaa.” Sympathize, just sympathy and not supporting their legitimacy… They call you Brotherhood and mess up your life. What?! Where's your freedom now?  
I’m supposed to be able speak up about anything that goes on in this country, because it’s about me and my family. It’s about my brother, my friends… it’s about everyone. We still haven’t got there. Still. To talk about what I want? To say what I want? Not yet. 
We don’t have freedom of thought, which is when you respect my thinking and I respect yours. Freedom won’t come before we learn respect within ourselves, from inside of ourselves. When we change ourselves from within and we fight the corruption that’s inside us. 
The truth is that social freedom is the essential thing.  It’s the responsibility of the family to inform, to teach, and to practice freedom with its children. So when you produce educated generations, when the father’s power, the family’s power, and the society’s power are with you, it turns into a democratic relationship. Social freedom. At that moment and in that way, we haven’t put the cart before the horse. Meaning social freedom comes first, and then political freedom.
Knowledge is the basis of everything. Like, if you asked me, “What’s the most valuable thing in the world?” — I’d tell you, “Information.” Not rockets or computers or anything…Information! You’re not going to go from being trapped and imprisoned to freedom in hours or a year. You have to take it by degrees. Let the Army or the police be in control, or whoever the president is. Step by step by step. So that we can get what we want, which is freedom. Not like suddenly, just like that, there’s freedom.
