Before the revolution, the future was dark and everything was broken. But the country was going well. 
Before January 25th, there was no future at all. The future was black. Everything went by bribes and connections. The son of a minister, a minister; the son of a doorman, a doorman.
During the January revolution, there was a dream for a better, brighter future.
After January 25th and the resignation, you felt like there was a better and brighter future. 
The future got hazy. Meaning, you couldn’t see that there was a future.
In my opinion, it’s unclear. And there’s still no hope that our future will get clear. 
Everyone wants to see that tomorrow will be a good day and everything, and that the future will be great with the presidency of Field Marshall El-Sisi. But I’m doubtful of the whole thing, to be honest. But we have hope for him, I swear… we have hope.
The problem is that we've got a problem, but people don’t see that we've got a problem. Nothing has changed. The economy is collapsing, and people don’t think there’s a problem.
Anyone running for office always sits around talking about the future, how it will be beautiful, and I don’t know what else.
I won’t listen to any who says, “Tomorrow is coming, and tomorrow is beautiful.”
No, tomorrow is not coming and it is not beautiful. It’s not coming, it’s not beautiful, and we are all distorted.
How can you say tomorrow and there’s no social justice?
How can you say tomorrow and there’s no security?
How can you say tomorrow and there’s no human rights?
How can you say tomorrow and the police are rude thugs?
How can you say to me, “Tomorrow”?
There is no tomorrow.
Tomorrow will be black days. Black days!
The whole world’s future, because of the economy, is going to straight to hell. The future of the Middle East has gone completely to hell because of the ongoing revolutions. So what about Egypt, which is affected by both of those factors, not to mention the foreign markets? Its future is completely hazy and dark.
I feel like the future is totally frightening, and it will be so much harder than now.
I feel like the future will be more crowded.
I’m starting to get scared about my future. As I keep getting older… yeah, I know I’m only 18… but still every day I get older, I get more scared about my future. I feel like my country isn’t going to offer me what I want. You know that up till now we’re still renting our apartment? We don’t even own an apartment! All of that since our country doesn’t offer housing for its citizens. There is no housing for citizens. I’m scared. I’m scared to get older and get married, and still not have an apartment.
We have a problem in Egypt. All the people are in different classes. You’ll find people who wake up in the morning and their day goes like this: wake up, sit by the pool, go home. Everything’s just perfect. That’s the whole day, then they stay up all night with their friends. Now let’s look at another person who gets up in the morning dejected and works so hard that he can barely see in front of him. What he takes home barely covers anything. What he takes home in a month, he spends in two weeks.
There are three things that can work out in this country: military officer, judge, or police officer. Those three are the ones who really live in this country. What does a normal citizen want? Housing, a living, and freedom to walk around with no one bothering them, not an officer or anyone, as long as they're following the law. The law that’s in the interest of the citizen. Not the law that’s in the interest of those who rule them.
The electricity goes out now. If I protested, they'd take my future for fifteen years. That’s the future. A black future.
So you’re talking about a state that is going to do what for you? Basically the state doesn’t even exist. You find things in it that aren’t right. Things aren’t in their right place. But to put things in their right place takes a lot of effort. To really look to the future, Egypt has another ten years in front of it.
And if any change is going to happen after this, it’s going to be from the coming, young generations. Not our generation. The younger generation that’s in high school now. The younger generation that… Maybe it’s a double-edged sword, but they don’t respect anyone. They literally don’t care about anyone. That’s a good thing. The truth is that they will take their rights and that’s what’s needed. That’s what they do.
I saw them going out in marches. They were going out in protests and they were not afraid. They stand there, not afraid of anything at all. How did they get that feeling? They saw their siblings die. They saw their older siblings lose their future. They don’t have a future. They have no education; they don’t work. So when they see their siblings like that, what are they going to care about? Really, what do they have to care about? Certainly, they won’t care about anything. So I see that these young generations… I mean, I hope to God that they’ll make some change. I hope to God that they’ll do something.
