GAS
Gas is one of the things I've learned from the most since the revolution. On a personal level, and on the level of my body, too.
The word makes me anxious. For me, the word gas brings up everything bad from the past.
Before the revolution, a gas canister didn't bring up anything for me. Except 2007, when gas was fired on the April 6th protests in Mahalla. No one knew what a gas canister was. It was shot in order to break up gatherings, because when you inhale it you cry. It gets hard to breathe, so you get out of there.
Before the revolution, I hated it because it was tied for me to the death of a person who was dear to me. It was because of a problem that happened to us here in the neighborhood where I live. There were people who were throwing stones or something at the police. The police were on one side and the people were on the other. So it was my neighbor, an old man the same age as my father, but he was really very dear to me. He was coming home; he had just got off work at the time and he was coming up the stairs in our building. At the same moment, the police shot a tear gas canister to break people up. One of them more or less got into the building, and he inhaled it when he was going up the stairs. In the time it took it to get to his house, just as he was changing his clothes… As a result, he died.
After the revolution, of course it spread a lot, because every protest and every demonstration was cleared with that stuff.
Gas is the first thing the police use to clear any protest. 
It looks really weird, like, that cannon they use to fire the gas canister. It's like a kind of fat iron pipe, and you put the canister in it and then shoot it. It gets shot to a specific place, and  it has a certain reach, of course. Honestly, the first time I saw it I was scared of it.
The first time was January 25th; the first time I inhaled gas in my life.
I've never inhaled it in my life.
At first, when the revolutionaries inhaled it, they'd get sick and leave the place. 
I remember there was a guy selling tissues. I was going to buy tissues from him, and suddenly everybody around me disappeared. I found myself on the front line. Everyone ran. I wasn't paying attention, and then one of them fell next to me, and I took the tissues from the guy, but I didn't give him any money. I was thinking, "So, should I give him some money or should I run?" Actually, I heard my friends calling me, and I was trying to give the guy money and he was trying to run… Get it? That was the first time. It was really weird.
Gas got into my eyes when I was in a protest in front of al-Raml precinct. My heart was in my throat. Then I got to know that you can treat it with some vinegar. That's what I learned. That's what I learned from the protests.
Me and daddy were at the market buying something, and there were some people with a canister and they were doing it. Tears started coming out of my eyes. Me and daddy and my brother and my eyes were hurting from the inside… My eyes… There were tears coming out of my eyes. We turned around and went back. We went home and asked the doctor about my eyes because I couldn't open them and tears were coming out and my nose hurt. We asked at the pharmacy and they said, "Wash your face with soda." Pepsi… you take Pepsi like this and you do it. I went and did it, and when I woke up the next day, I was like, "It was a dream!" Like, did that really happen?!
The gas lights your face on fire. We can't stand it; we need some air. It stops you from getting oxygen. It really hurts. I tried it myself. I didn't know, but when I tried it myself, I found out.
Of course, the revolutionaries learned how to deal with it: with Pepsi and vinegar. 
I went to some clashes that were happening around us here; I was taking photos. It was, like, a crazy idea to go out in the middle of it. I went out and took photos. Then I succeeded in getting a video of a gas canister falling in front in me. On that day, of course I inhaled gas. My friends were with me and inhaled the gas when we were running from the police. Maybe at the time I was about to die. We didn't have anything but water with us. Water's a problem. I hear that it agitates the gas even more, while Pepsi and vinegar calm it down. At the time we didn't have anything but water, so some people that were with me said, "Put some water on your face." So I did and it got worse! Yeah, it was a problem. I went home and I was totally destroyed. It was just a couple of days of physical exhaustion, but the psychological effects have continued.
Up till now, their sound is one of the things… the sound and smell of nerve gas screw me up. I was totally screwed up by it; the last thing I remember is six or seven booms. Six gas canisters, shot one after the other. 
Gunfire is gunfire. If I get shot, I fall.  الخرز اللي ضربت بيها موقعتيش مثلا. You might not fall from the bullets they shoot.  But this is exhausting: a gas canister explodes, it shoots out shit, and you're screwed. You might have permanent damage from something I see as regrettable… I don't understand it.
I don't think it's a good way for them to deal with people.
What made me get gas? It's the people. What made me riot? Like, for sure what I'm doing isn't right; it's not within my rights. When I'm wrong, when the collective sees what I'm doing as wrong, completely wrong… Any creature will attack when attacked. That's normal, it's not something that's, like, dictatorial. We can't say that the police are unjust. No, it's a normal thing. Anyone who is attacked, or any institution that's attacked, a state or an entity that's attacked, will defend themselves. So what made me go get gas? I'm definitely doing something wrong. For sure, it's a dead-end road for me. 
Like, excuse me, أنا بستقفنها يعني I can stand it. I'm not scared of it. I feel like they're using it to play with people. I feel like we're in kindergarten playing with dough. 
Not every gas canister has tear gas.
We pretty much inhaled every type of gas that exists. There were exactly four types of gas: tear gas and nerve gas, and there are two other types that are like kind of spherical. They have kind of like a base. 
Nerve gas causes like… like neuropathy or something. That gas was at Mohamed Mahmoud. 
Once when I was at Mohamed Mahmoud, something really weird happened to me. I was used to the canister being shot at me. I would grab it and throw it back. This specific canister was shot, but it was far from me, but not that far… three or four meters, something like that. When I went towards it, I inhaled the gas. My mask, when I was running my mask was shaking and stuff… I inhaled the gas, and I got seizures. I couldn't move. I tried to fix it but I couldn't, until thank God this kid I'll never forget catapulted the canister far away, like towards Central Security… thank God. 
Gas makes evident the good things in people. In all of my experiences with gas, people collaborated together. When there are issues like that, people really get together.
I got seizures from the gas. I started talking to one of my friends; I said to her, "Come here." She came and I said, "I can't feel my body." I didn't feel anything while I was talking to her. She started to notice that my leg was moving on its own. The problem was that everyone kept saying to me, "Calm down." They were holding me, and I felt calm! But my body was moving on its own.
There's only one gas they didn't use. They used it in Ukraine for a while: laughing gas. I wish they had gotten us that gas. 
The next day in Mohamed Mahmoud, when we were in the actual street, three canisters were shot: one in front of us, one behind us, and one sort of next to us. There was a guy who grabbed a canister, and it was, like, really hot. He didn't know what to do with it, so he threw it right in front of us. That's another kind of awareness: that the canister is really hot.
Whenever we went out to clashes and a gas canister was thrown, we'd fight over who would get to it and grab it.
It plays two roles: usually, it's with the Army or the police, and you can throw it back again.
Now, it's like it gets shot at them and they throw it back again. They're not scared of it or anything. For the revolutionaries, the gas was a good thing. They don't want to inhale it, because they love clashes!
None of us were afraid of the gas canisters, but we don't like them. For us, they represent our lives.
We, as Egyptian people, have finally developed an immunity to gas. Like, that's it. We don't need vinegar and onions anymore. We inhale it just like it's air. And I wish they would change the type of gas they use, because the gas doesn't affect us anymore.
As we said, "Addicted to gas."
Forgive me, but, if a gas canister were a woman, I would marry her.
There's less gas now. I mean, we stopped hearing about it. We don't hear about it as much anymore. Yeah, sometimes you feel like you need to inhale some gas.
For most of the protests, gas doesn't cover it anymore. They start with a gas canister and finish with gunfire, pellets, and all kinds of boorishness.
When I go out in a protest, they're supposed to respect it. Leave us to protest, as long as it doesn't matter that much to you. Why are you assaulting us? When I've seen gunfire coming from ahead, I've gone out of the crowd and made myself noticeable. It's not me! I'm not with them! Why? I'm scared to die. I don't want to die. So now I don't know how to defend my freedom; I don't know how to protect my freedom of opinion in my country. As long as the protest isn't a big deal, when it's just fifty people going out… just leave it. What's your problem with it? Except no, it's clear that it's something effective and that it's something that angers people… because it's right. Because of that, we face this; we face the inhumane things we face.




