Before the revolution, I didn't know what they looked like, or what… Actually, the name wasn't even around. It's an innovation from right after the revolution when the police would, like, throw or fire gas canisters at the protesters.
Before the revolution, people didn't know anything about them. After the revolution, they started getting used, especially during the Mohamed Mahmoud incidents.
We found out they played a very important role. 
The protesters used gas masks as a means of defending themselves from tear gas. 
Forget that it's called tear gas! It's suffocation gas. It kills. It clogs the arteries. It does all kinds of shitty things you can't imagine. So, the gas mask would protect you a bit.
For me, it was a remarkable thing. I mean, the police would be using everything they had to assault people, and people were just using any old thing to protect themselves. They'd use goggles or masks or that paper you put over your mouth. But it was just like the wrapping paper you put on something to be like, "This is a gift."
There are different kinds of gas masks. Obviously, our masks were nothing like the ones the police had. Like, never in our whole lives would we ever be able to get ones like theirs. Our masks were scarves or t-shirts or keffiyehs. We'd use them as masks. Obviously, they don't do anything for the gas. But we try. 
After the idea of using vinegar, lemon, and water, there started to be gas masks produced in places; they were also sold in the squares. They were in Rabaa Square and in Tahrir Square.
They showed pictures of people on TV selling gas masks for people to wear when there were clashes.
During Mohamed Mahmoud, they said, "They're getting injections so that the gas doesn't affect them." They'd say the youth were taking something—pills or something—so that the gas wouldn't do anything to them. Of course, none of that was happening.
Most of the time when gas was shot, people died. Up till now there are people coughing up blood, like the people in prison or example. The gas in Mohamed Mahmoud has started to show its effect on them.
Gas masks are more or less weapons; one of our weapons.



