Graffiti: art of the street.
Naturally, graffiti is tied to the revolution for me.
Wasn't there graffiti before the revolution?
We have painting, and we have painting to represent particular events. At weddings, people even get henna and paint hands and hearts… they use henna to paint and write on the walls. But before the revolution, the word graffiti wasn't tied to the act.
Before the revolution, you'd only find it on walls around a school: "My country is beautiful, clean, and developed."
Graffiti was around as a type of art. It wasn't very expressive; it didn't speak to any specific issue. It wasn't really known by the public, but it was around. Of course, there was a lot less.
There was graffiti before the revolution. I understood it as a purely artistic thing that had nothing to do with personal opinions, except that not everything is possible to express in a painting or an exhibition or those things. Sometimes, because a person doesn't have any way to exhibit their work, they are forced to put their art in the street. 
It was around, but it wasn't about politics. They had it for soccer. I think basically half of the graffiti was about soccer—Ultras Ahlawi, Ultras White Knights, that kind of thing. They were the ones doing graffiti and stuff.
I saw it… I saw it like a few months before the revolution. I didn't really understand it, but after a while I started to get it. The revolutionaries use it to express something that they want. They paint something that happened—an event, a martyr, a prisoner. They paint a picture of something good that happened in the revolution. They use it to express themselves everywhere, so that people everywhere can see it and understand their ideas from the graffiti.
It's a kind of art that goes to the people; the people don't go to it.
I feel like anyone can understand it, you know? You don't have to be intellectual or well-read. You don't have to be an artist.
It's a simple way to reach people's hearts. A huge mural might get my attention when I'm walking in the street. I'll look at it and remember. I'll contemplate it, even if it's just to meditate on and remember certain events. Or, I might have a question about what the mural is about, and want to know its story.
Truly, there are people who are affected by graffiti. It expresses opinions that maybe people don't know about, and graffiti brings them to their attention.
It's a way of expressing an opinion, but it's peaceful. It's something really beautiful that the youth expend their energy on—something exquisite.
The wall is my newspaper; it's my media. I express myself on it. The State is against us in everything, and so they erase it.
Every other day the police or the Army erase the graffiti. Then, they go back and paint it again, or paint something different.
In all of its parts, it has everything to do with resistance—in a personal sense and in the sense of work.
I think it's something that's necessitated by what's happening. By chance, there are people who have these talents, and someone needs to convey what's going on—or, they need to get their voice heard by any means. So you find that it's what they use to say that this is my part. To express it.
There is something very human about things on a wall. People see it on the wall, but you see it as something more. It belongs to them like it belongs to you. It's another way of saying, "I was here."
Graffiti is a way of conveying what you've lost. You paint it on the wall so that you remember it all the time.
One of the things I really like is the idea of Mohamed Mahmoud Street. They decided to paint the martyrs from a whole lot of incidents. They want this particular part to be like a memorial.
The Mohamed Mahmoud graffiti is the most famous graffiti in Egypt. It testified to the whole revolution—a panorama of the revolution, its events from the 25th to June 30th.
Graffiti is our means of sending our message to the regime. Of course, when our message started to reach them through graffiti, they started to repress us—the regime started to repress us in the streets.
Graffiti is provocative, you know? The evidence is that wherever someone does graffiti having to do with anything, people come and paint white over it or whatever. No one is ever gonna go buy paint and expend the effort to control or spoil the work of someone who came before, except if they really know that it's doing something—that it's sending its message. That it's scandalous, you know?
Unfortunately, what happens is that when there's a nice painting, you find someone writing on the side or ruining it with something… especially in the Muslim Brotherhood demonstrations. Every time they're walking, they write… they write on the walls that it was a coup, go out, etcetera, in order to ruin it. Or, in order to get people's attention, because in and of itself graffiti gets people's attention.
There's some sort of forcing of opinion. Even more, it's not even nice… all of it looks really bad. It's not art and it has no message. It's become something that a lot of people have followed and adopted for themselves without… like, without any real meaning.
Let's have a look at what went on after June 30th. You'd find some awful person holding an awful spray can they bought for seven pounds, writing, "El-Sisi is a traitor," or whatever, in an awful way. It looked repulsive; like, it would disgust a dog. Now, look back to the days of the revolution. To write on the wall would take a week of work, and after that they'd erase it and start over again. They'd buy a bunch of spray paints, and one can would cost fifty pounds—not seven pounds! They did it well. That's the difference between the revolution and the Muslim Brotherhood… between the revolution and the Muslim Brotherhood. This point makes it clear.
But of course in the last period, there've been a lot of obstacles for graffiti, with calls for the protection of property—as though graffiti were a kind of land mine.




 

