There was gunfire from the beginning, from Central Security Forces, on January 25th in Suez—specifically in Suez, where the first martyr fell.
January 28th was a massacre. It wasn't normal gunfire; there was a sniper that'd be above the precinct. I saw it with my own eyes. I saw the sniper's laser when he was targeting people in front of the Dar El Salam precinct. 
They go into Cairo University and fire guns. They mess up Al-Azhar University with its girls and guys and everything; they fire guns there as though it's nothing at all. Everything has been witnessed. There are videos of everything, and at the end of it all someone from the Ministry of the Interior might come out and say that the police didn't fire a single shot, and there were no orders given to open fire. So God only knows where the gunfire came from! They paint the picture as they like. 
There's gunfire everywhere; even now they still fire guns. You're sitting there and you hear gunfire outside. You say, "What is that?!" and they say, "A wedding," to calm you down—to make you feel safe. But you find out that when there's gunfire, people are killing each other. It's easier than saying, "Give me a pound." It's so much easier to say, "Let's go shoot guns." Where are they getting these weapons?! Where do they get gunfire?!
The reason is there's no law and the police aren't doing their job. There's no weapons collection, there's arms smuggling, lack of conscience, no fear of God, no awareness… The easiest thing is gunfire and murder. It's gotten to be normal. Assault, clashes, gunfire… they've all become normal. They're all the result of the absence of the state, absence of the law, and lack of respect for the state. 
As I see it, there should be no gunfire in the country, in the city, or in the governorates, or anything. Gunfire is either for war or on the borders—that kind of thing.
I think gunfire is right when there's a destructive protest. If the protest is destroying something—if it has left its peaceful path—I think that gunfire is a very proper thing because they're using it to defend themselves. We have, like, the police—the police are this country. If the police fall, the country has fallen. If anyone gets near the police, they should shoot—that's what I think. 
The Army and the police and the security forces who stand up have the right to defend the place they're securing, and that's it. How they defend it is up to them! Anything is allowed, as long as they secure the place. Gunfire should be the last thing… the last, last thing that the police and the Army should use, except that there are a lot of times that gunfire is permissible. 
We have to shoot in order to live. The revolution came and allowed thugs and regular people to have weapons. I've seen… I've seen a tank firing… a protest that wanted to ruin the country for us, and they went and shot at it. Everyone went home and then everything was calm. 


