Generally speaking, anyone who hears the word "ultras" in Egypt starts thinking one of two things: either the Revolutionary Ultras, or the Ultras who follow soccer, who cheer on the soccer clubs.
Before the revolution, Ultras was a term used only in soccer. They're the ones who support a soccer team or whatever. It's a word that refers to a group that formed itself to root for the team with greater, more extraordinary enthusiasm.
All they think about is supporting the club. Whatever the club does, we're behind them. We go with them wherever they go.
The word ultras comes from something that is more than is necessary.
Isn't it an English word? I don't know what it means.
It's a word with an English origin, referring to the best people, the people at the top. Society's elite—the greatest people, the finest people. The soccer fans started to call themselves that, but their conduct gave a different meaning to the word. Their conduct is chaotic and full of thuggery, so the word presumes chaos and the thuggery of youth. So now, Ultras means chaotic young thugs who don't follow the law.
The Ultras are the most organized entity I have ever seen up to this point in my life.
They are Egyptians, youth like all other youth; they have dreams and aspirations, and they want to see this country get better.
Except there are hardly any girls in the Ultras.
I was in a group, but unfortunately we couldn't continue to be in it as girls, because as they say, the girls couldn't continue because they might get arrested at any time and their families… it would be hard on them and stuff. So we had to leave the group.
No one understands the Ultras. In my opinion, they are some of the most courageous youth in Egypt. But they've been understood wrong, as a result of the media of course, especially the sports media. They've told people that these youth are thugs. Some of the Islamic groups say to them, "You are infidels," and others say, "You are pretty much terrorists." Try to understand them—try to get what they are aiming for. They were soccer fans, so why did they go out into the streets with the revolution?
At first, all of us just wanted to support the club, but the situation changed after the harassment we suffered, after the assaults and arrests that were happening in the stadium. So the situation developed. 
At the beginning of the revolution, they would go out as individuals, each one wearing a T-shirt bearing the name of the thing he cares about. People would say for instance, "So-and-so went out, so all of the Ultras Ahlawi went out."
If one of the Ultras went out to march in the street, a peaceful march without speaking or anything—even if he just stayed silent and held up a sign—you'd find them saying on TV, "The Ultras are wrong" — "They're thugs" — and so on.
The best marches I joined in my life were the ones where the Ultras demonstrated. See, the most exciting thing in demonstrations is that they don't have a problem with cursing. You feel like they're really natural; they're completely themselves. They have a tendency towards violence as well. I mean, they aren't politicians; they are more of a street movement.
Our dream is to get free, to speak our minds, to dissent, to live a good life.
They were driven to politics by the regime. They're the ones who drove them to politics. They drove them to politics for example by oppression in the stands—oppressive treatment in the stands. The stands are basically the Ultras' home.
I was at one point in time one of these people. This association, because it's all educated and enlightened youth, struggled against the police. Or, they started it with us, so we met the challenge and fought them. Thus we found something, a productive point that we could talk about: the regime. We started changing the songs we sang because we were fighting those people.
That's where the problem started: Interior Minister Habib Al-Adly treated us badly in the stands. We were searched and roughed up; they did a lot of bad things to us in the stands. When we wanted to express our opinions and stuff, they tried to get us to do something one day for Alaa and Gamal Mubarak when they entered the stadium. On the day of the match, we said we wouldn't do it because they don't have anything to do with soccer, and we don't have anything to do with politics. They put us in that position of their own minds, in spite of themselves. 
If you go ahead and look at some of the games and stuff, you'll find that it's the police that started it first with every group, ok? They're the ones who started the clashes and things.
The Ultras stood up for me in this country. I wish they would come back. I feel like they knew how to get their voices heard; they knew how to do something. I remember the government…it was obvious that they were afraid.
They were fighting an idea. They don't want to understand that we won't turn back. We won't give up. No—we're young and we've got nothing to lose. We haven't seen anything good in this country, so we can't be disappointed; whatever happens we'll continue. We'll come out, speak out, say whatever our hearts desire, and we won't be afraid of anything. The Ultras is an idea. You're certain of what you're doing so you stick with it; you keep fighting for it, whatever the cost.
A lot of the Ultras died in the battle at Port Said, because of a song we wrote: "Ya Ghorab Wa Maashesh Gowa Beytna (Oh Crow Who Has Nested in Our House)." The song talked about the life of a police officer who started out as a failure in high school, but because he had money or good connections went into the police academy and became an officer. He started to take out his frustrations on us. Ok? Because he didn't… he doesn't share in our struggle, so he gets in a particular psychological state when he sees us and hears our songs.
The situation took them to… or their minds are very closed… the situation came to murder. There were seventy-three martyrs who died in that battle. They were children and adults, and… they were people of all ages in the group. The fight turned into us refusing to stop our support until we got the martyrs' rights. So now, our fight is with them. We'll keep up with you, leaving the club to the side for now, and we'll fight you.
Of course I can't say for sure that the massacre at Port Said was organized by those in power, but I believe that it was organized. What happened at Port Said was one of the worst incidents that we've passed through, in that there were people going to see a game and they were killed there—a lot of them very young boys.
No one in the Ultras has gotten his rights, even when we've gone out and died—one, two, three, four, or a million.
The group has split up now, as the result of people being against the revolution after what they've seen. There are other people who tell you, "That's enough for now; we're afraid." I wish the Ultras would continue in the revolution. I wish they themselves would rise up in a revolution. I wish that all of the Ultras would go down in the street, one hand, to get the rights of the martyrs. Unfortunately, no.
The day those youth find Egypt being built in the right way, from a clean slate, they will build  it because they helped to change the system. They helped because they wanted the country to be… to be Egypt. When they get back this country, they will be the first people to stand up.
I just want to send the message that they are not afraid. They're not afraid of anything and they've got nothing left. They just want to get back the rights of their friends who died, and they want to speak freely. They have an idea they want to get across—nothing more. One way or another, they want to get their message across. When it happens, it happens. We just don't know when; we're still finishing the job.
