Before the revolution, know one knew anything about the Guy Fawkes mask, except the movie.
I don't think that it was around or well-known before the revolution. Maybe just people who watch the movie "V"—maybe they understood its significance.
Of course, anyone who believes in the idea of revolution knows the movie. 
I wasn't really very fond of it. 
I might not have been really into the film at the time—before the revolution.
I saw the Guy Fawkes mask in Tahrir on January 29th. I saw some kids wearing them. 
For me, the Guy Fawkes mask means the Anonymous movement on the internet.
After the revolution, I got to know a lot of people, and I started getting into the idea of anarchy and the idea that authority is in and of itself something bad—in that it only serves the interests of a certain group of people, even when it looks good or attractive.
I think that after the revolution a large number of the youth adopted the values that the mask represents—the values they tried to realize during the revolution. I mean, the idea of the mask itself wasn't just the Guy Fawkes mask; I think there were a lot of masks in a similar vein that differed depending on the motivation behind them.
We wore the Guy Fawkes mask as a sign of freedom. 
They're used as a mere symbol, but the military analysts made a huge deal out of them. They said, "It's a Satanist design," and, "A foreign agenda."
In 2012, the Brotherhood said that the revolutionaries were wearing Guy Fawkes masks to hide their faces, so they could shoot guns and break, ruin, and destroy things in the country.
The Guy Fawkes mask hasn't gotten its freedom; I mean, it hasn't had its moment. 
On January 25th, 2013, I was wearing a T-shirt that said "Fuck the system," and I was wearing a Guy Fawkes mask on my arm… I put it on my arm like this, and I wrote on it, "Down with the rule of the supreme guide," and "Freedom." I also wrote, "Morsi: Game Over." So I was walking away from Tahrir Square—I was going home—and a Central Security Special Forces officer stopped me. He said, "Are you Black Block?" — I told him, "No, I'm not Black Block." — He said, "No, you're Black Block." — I said, "No, man, I swear I'm not Black Block. Everything's cool; there's no problem." — He said, "So then why are you wearing that?" — I said, "It's no big deal. People are fed up with Morsi's rule, they're totally done." — He said, "Ok, show me your ID." — I showed him my ID, he looked at it and said, "Look, first of all that's it for this mask; you're not going to see it again. It's mine now. But you're not going to come on to this street ever again, you will not go to Tahrir Square again, and you will not go on to Qasr al-Aini Street ever." — I asked, "Why?" — He said, "Don't ask why! Either I'm going to charge you right now with being a member of Black Block, or I'm going to take this mask, you leave, and you don't come back here again." — Honestly, I was alone, so I gave him the mask and left. In six days, I was in Tahrir Square again.




