Hope: it could be a girl's name.
There is no hope. There is no hope. Her phone number got lost.
Do I have hope? I swear I don't have hope in myself! In this country? Maybe, just maybe… God knows, but we don't.
Before the revolution, we had some hope that things would get fixed or put right. Or, we had an idea of a better future—that our country would develop, and that it would be better than before.
We had real hope that people would go out. That one day, people would get fed up and go out. And that hope was actually realized.
The word hope started with me during the Tunisian Revolution. At the time, I said, "There's hope." 
The climax of my feeling of hope was on the day I went out to the Mostafa Mahmoud march—on January 25th. As time passed, the feeling came and went, went up and down like mad.
When true hope existed, it stuck around for just the eighteen days. When it was around, it was obvious in people's behavior towards each other.
I am certain that God ربنا بيهب الناس كما يشاء . I'm sure of it, completely sure. Right now we had a couple of guys, and one of them won. Whether he's good or bad is in our own hands. Because the ruler is generally a reflection of the people. If we're good, he'll be good in spite of himself; if we're bad, he'll be bad.
Maybe my idea about the guy is wrong; maybe those who elected him are right. I don't know. I'll give him a chance for four years, and after four years I'll tell you exactly whether there's hope or not. I can't say right away when he takes power, "He's bad." No.
After the revolution, there was more hope that we would put things right, that we wouldn't despair, that we'd keep going until our hopes were achieved—even if we were only a small group.
Where am I going to get hope when I'm roughed up and arrested, when I'm persecuted without doing anything wrong? Where will I get hope for tomorrow when I feel like a stranger in my own country?
Right now, we're in a state of frustration. I mean, when someone says they might feel hopeful, maybe they see better than I do. Maybe I've been affected by all the stress.
Hope? I feel some hope… I feel like that hope will start to appear in a couple of years. 
I myself say that hope is still around and that despair is treason. That the revolution will definitely  continue, God willing. We'll get our demands because we've worked on it for three years or more. This is the beginning of the revolution.
Except it won't happen, but maybe.