Human rights is not a word in Egypt's dictionary.
Like, I don't think it's even a word that exists at all. 
It's a word that hasn't spread, either before or after the revolution. Since the time of the Pharaohs, we haven't had anything called human rights. The people in this country are always slaves. People basically don't understand what human rights are.
Apart from people like me who have studied politics, or people who work in civil society, I don't think that the word "rights" even exists. I don't even think that people know that there is something called "civil society" or "human rights organizations," or things like that.
I don't believe in human rights, anyway… yeah, I swear. Nope. In a country that doesn't even have the value of humanity, human rights are impossible.
They will never be realized. It's kind of difficult. 
As I see it, there are no rights and there are essentially no humans. People just barely keep their heads above water. They are born and they die, but there's no one except God to get their rights for them. There's nothing more than that.
In Egypt, human rights are something… they're a tool. A tool they use when they want to show it off, that they hide when they want to hide. That's it.
Human rights are a ruse. I mean, they're something they use to hide their mistakes. They don't exist anyway; we are animals. We are just dogs, and we get trampled.
Human rights? Human rights? You thought the revolution would get your rights, but it turns out they were crushed even more. People died! Where are human rights? Did they protect people—the youth who died when they were twenty-five years old? If I, or you, had a brother, a sister, or a son who died in a revolution like this, where did their rights go? Where have they gone? They don't have rights at all. There are basically no humans.
Do you remember before the revolution… before the revolution, when you heard about a number of crimes committed by police officers? A police officer killed so-and-so and وأتحول لمش عارف مين it was turned over to someone else, and you hear that nothing happened. Was he put on trial? He wasn't put on trial. 
Where are human rights gonna come from when they agitate people at Rabaa and al-Nahda, and in Tahrir at the beginning of the revolution? Where are they gonna come from? How can you talk about human rights when the poor get crushed and messed up? 
No one is interested in the poor or the unknown. But if you're famous, human rights will run after you and talk about you.
People with money get their rights. As long as they have money, they know they will get their rights.
Who are human rights for? Basically, for the stronger people—the ones whose power is protected. If you have rights but you're basically weak, there won't be anything called human rights. The whole world is corrupt. People don't even respect each other.
People have also lost their humanity and compassion—they've died. I feel like we are living amongst the dead, all of us dead, children of the dead. Girl, right now if an old man or woman tries to get on the bus, a guy around twenty-years old who could lift a car pushes her aside to get on. He's first! Where are this woman's rights? We don't have rights amongst each other. We are pretty much not human.
People spend the day doing errands, getting around the city, that stuff, but not any more than that. To live a productive life, or some kind of dignified life—what I think is natural—for people to feel that they are human, to go out in the street and feel their dignity… to feel that they have dignity, you know? That's what I think human rights are—that a person feels they lead a dignified life. As soon as you wake up in the morning, you're in control of the course of your day, you know what I mean? You make a decision and you're responsible for it; you respect others and others respect you; your basic needs are taken care of.
Unfortunately we've got a lot of people who don't understand the concept, or people who understand it wrong.
Before the revolution, people didn't really know what human rights were. Before the revolution, people weren't really interested in them. After the revolution, they're interested in human rights, because they've started talking. There are conferences and people talking about human rights, so they've started to get sort of interested.
We talk a whole lot about human rights in Egypt, but in reality we don't have any kind of human rights here. We have laws—ink on paper—but they're not enforced. Egypt signed the Declaration of Human Rights when it was created, but it doesn't enforce it.
Certainly the whole world recognizes human rights and Egypt signed… they signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. I mean, Egypt is among the countries that signed it.
We don't have any human rights, since Morsi and since Mubarak. And we won't have human rights until a long time from now, I tell you.
I don't follow a particular political ideology, but I am convinced that if human rights are enforced in this country, like we've agreed to do, it will make people's lives better. But when I demand my rights, people look at me… they treat me like it's overkill or something like that.
They object to the expression, especially some of the Islamists. They oppose and they say, "No, that's weird."
I've noticed that there are a lot of people who use the term as though it is something weird  and foreign that made our youth rise up in revolution. The thing I've heard most often is that Islam gives rights to everyone; but, I haven't heard anyone thinking about whether anyone is enforcing the rights that Islam gives. Is anyone interested in that?
There are some organizations that call themselves human rights organizations whose only objective is to take foreign funding. With that funding they do a few activities for show, but they're not actually fighting for human rights in Egypt.
Egypt has a huge number of human rights organizations. There are even some that don't exist; just an organization that doesn't exist. Some of them operate in a very serious way, and there are some that make you feel like they pretty much don't understand human rights. 
People who are fighting for human rights… I'm not talking about civil society, I'm talking about the government… they essentially don't know what human rights are. They think that human rights are when people eat, drink, sleep, and go to the bathroom. They don't know about dignity and respect, about treating people with love… they don't know about that at all. They don't have that bit in their minds to know what people's needs are, as humans: how I want to live, what will please me or make me happy. They aren't versed in that. So, there are no human rights in Egypt.
This whole thing is beyond the means of the Egyptian citizen. The simple Egyptian citizen doesn't know whether this stuff is right or wrong, due to the amount of distortion in what gets said.
They're not even interested in their rights anyway. You know, they are slaves, too. 
We have a lot of human rights violations, in a lot of things: for women, for children, for prisoners or those sentenced in certain trials, because of torture. We really have a lot of human rights violations, and we need to work on them for many long years in order to really have a percentage of human rights.
When will human rights come? Human rights will come when the one who deals with them isn't a government employee. The people who work on human rights in Egypt are government employees, and their work is basically to oppress people. They will never get human rights together or know what human rights are.
