IDEAL GIRL
Within the narrow limits of the kind of thinking that we're living in, an ideal girl is composed, doesn't speak, and is very beautiful. People want to get engaged or get married to her.
Ideal girl is a term that was used for the girl who was stripped in the Council of Ministers incident. The whole world saw her clothes torn off by soldiers. They stripped her and beat her. It was said that she was wearing an abaya with snaps—that she was basically wearing clothes that should not be worn in a protest. 
Ideal girl: I think she was one of the icons of the revolution, and she's an ideal, ideal, ideal girl. 
Of course, it was a very well known incident, and it really affected all of us. Because, how could one of our sisters be stripped in the street, by soldiers that we call our brothers and stuff… how could they strip a girl?!
At the time, the armed forces put out three different videos. Like, she was wearing an abaya and underneath it, a blue bra, ok. In the second video, they had someone wearing an isdal, the kind that's closed at the front and is all one piece, the one that whatever you do would never come off. In the third video, which is also supposed to be the very same woman, she's wearing a niqab!
No one goes out… no one goes out just wearing an abaya, and what's more, an abaya with snaps! I mean, it's a bad omen. You might get caught on something, you might get tangled up… you should anticipate when you are walking that a little barb might stick out and you get tangled in it and find that it's been pulled off, torn, whatever might happen… what will you do?
She's free! She doesn't need to go out wearing a ninja abaya so it doesn't get torn off.
We don't look at what she's wearing. We look at the way she was insulted. Why was she stripped and assaulted at all? People should wear what they want. It's every girl's right to protest—it's not just boys or young men who have the right to protest.
Ideal girl is a sign that what happened to her wasn't shameful. It was a difficult thing that happened to her, in a terrible place, at a terrible time. Those who did it to her are dogs.
She was wrong. She's the only one that it happened to at that time, right? Were there any other girls who were insulted? There were a hundred thousand girls who went out. Were they insulted? Why did the Army leave all those girls and fixate on this one? I mean, was she so pretty? They left all the other girls and focused on her? If they were wrong, wouldn't it be obvious to everyone, not just to her? Am I wrong? When there's a basket full of rotten tomatoes, aren't they all rotten? To tell the truth, she was wrong.
At the end of the day, they saw her as a woman, with a certain form. Based on something that  she has no control over, that she can't change—the form in which God created her biologically. Based on that form, she can be marked by any stain that you can imagine: she can be insulted, she can be exploited, the whole situation can be exploited and the most terrible charges thrown at her and everyone around her. The whole idea is that… is that God made you a girl, so you must endure. Don't participate in anything, don't go out, stay afraid all the time that someone will expose you because of your body and because you were created a girl.
I'm not with what happened to the ideal girl at the Council of Ministers, but I am against her, because she gave up her rights. All of the girls who went out to the Square and had virginity tests done to them, who were assaulted or whatever happened to them, have to stand up and get their rights. But you lost your rights because you were scared. Scared of what? As long you went out of your house, you shouldn't be afraid.
Your reality is also different. You might be killed or injured, you might get insulted and screwed by everything, and if that happens to you, you will disgrace your family and harm them, you'll be stigmatized and be a burden to them, and you will be the one who hurt them. So if you go out into the street, you have to have some guarantee that you won't die or get beat up, not just because of your own body, but because of them as well.
Even this expression, "ideal girl," is used by some people to say, "You must stay at home. You are something that needs to be kept to the side." And, "You're weak" — "Don't do anything" — "متشؤكيش في حاجة" — "Stay away from everything because people will look at you." Just because you are a girl. Not because you are a human being.
I want to tell you that ninety percent of the young men who saw the situation wanted to be in a relationship with the girl who was named with this word. Why? Something that no one can understand except the young men; something called chivalry and gallantry. Do you know nobility? It was truly heated up in them. Every one of them wanted to defend her dignity. They saw that this girl couldn't get her rights. How could they return her dignity to her? They hoped that she would get in a relationship with them—that they could turn her life around, away from the situation, and make her feel her essence, feel that she is important… that she is so important in their perspective.
I think that every girl in Egypt should be called an ideal girl. If we started educating children when they're young, and teach them the importance of the word lady in our lives, if we teach them a woman's ability and that she is not less than you in anything, a lot of phenomena will disappear—violence against women, sexual harassment. A lot of things would be different if we could work together without differentiation. A lot of things would change. I think that every girl in Egypt should be an ideal girl—that they shouldn't be treated differently from anyone else. 