For Egyptians before the revolution, an infidel was someone who didn't pray, who didn't have a religion, who didn't have faith. That's what they thought an infidel was.
In the past, for us Muslims, calling someone an infidel was a very serious thing.
Before the revolution, I don't think there was anyone who said to anyone, "You're an infidel."
Before the revolution, I never called anyone an infidel or heard anyone call someone else an infidel… like, except the bigots who called Christians infidels and called the whole world outside Egypt infidels.
I heard this word; I've heard it since I was eight years old. Radicalism and Wahabi ideology have been around since before I was born, so the Sheikhs in Saudi Arabia would say, "Haram," "infidel," "lecher," and "apostate."
For me, I never understood what it meant because of its superficiality… until the revolution. When the revolution came, I started to feel like… I couldn't believe it. What's an infidel? I went to look for the linguistic meaning.
The linguistic understanding of an infidel is someone who covers something. The word comes from concealment, and it's used to describe someone who departs from majority beliefs, or departs from the traditional beliefs of their society. 
They're covered, so the light can't reach them; the light which is faith. 
Meaning they conceal something with something else. Religion is concealed, and people don't see faith there. So there's infidelity. An infidel.
Then I began to understand that if, for example, you are Christian and I am Muslim, I'm an infidel in your religion and you are an infidel in mine. The word started not to be as bad as I thought!
To say that a Christian or a Jew is an infidel… no! They are people of the book—right and divine books. The Torah was sent from above, the Bible was sent from above, and the Qur'an was sent from above, so there is no reason for disagreement. They all believe in God. They all believe in God! When the Prophet, peace be upon him, sent his message, he didn't say, "You're infidels." He said, "You're human, so it's your right to live a human life, a life with freedom—to be free in this world." 
Because, in the end, the idea of faith or lack of faith is entirely a personal issue. I've never had an issue with the idea of a person who is an infidel or an atheist, a person without religion or anyone like that. It doesn't have to be anyone else's problem.
Unfortunately, Egyptian society has the idea that faith is the basis of our lives, so anyone who is outside the arena of faith is an infidel.
Infidels are oppressed in this country. If you're an infidel, you can't speak. When they get them on TV, they mostly get them in a comical way. Like, they don't even give them a chance to speak. Like, there'll be a guy saying, "I don't believe in anything," and you're saying… you're sitting there saying, "Let's have a look at the Qur'an." Man, the guy doesn't even believe in it!
Now anyone who says anything different gets called an infidel or told they will become an infidel. Just the idea of calling someone an infidel is a catastrophe. It's a catastrophe.
The meaning is the same, before and after the revolution. There's not a big change in meaning; it's the same meaning, except it has been used in a political way after the revolution, at a certain time.
After the revolution, the Muslim Brotherhood used the term the most, to say, "You aren't with us, so you're an infidel." — "You don't pray, so you're an infidel." — "You're not with the religion, so you're an infidel."
I used to hear it on Islamic TV channels during Morsi's rule.
Infidel is a very broad word.
We heard it a lot, not just in the time of the Brotherhood but even before that—even before they came to power. Yeah, beginning with the March referendum: "'Yes' will get you into heaven, and 'no' will send you to hell." We started to hear it in every election, up till the presidential elections; that we were against Islam, despite the fact that it was the complete opposite.
The extremist Islamist organizations gave a terrible meaning to this word, because they used it to describe most Muslims. They used it to describe those who didn't share their political opinions—not their religious opinions. So, it departed from its original meaning.
It's become sort of like Saudi Arabia now; anyone who says anything wrong, or who does something that diverges from our customs and traditions, is an infidel.
Maybe if they just do their hair a certain way, they're an infidel. If they wear strange clothes, they're an infidel. If they listen to a certain type of music: infidel. If I had a dime for every time someone said the word infidel…
We are a people who really love to call people infidels.
The word is on everyone's tongue—everyone who thinks they have the keys to heaven. The Sheikhs.
The Sheikhs who are on the satellite channels, where everyone comes on to say something superficial. In the end, you find out that they aren't Sheikhs or anything. They just come on to present an image to people, wearing the cloak of right and wrong—and then you find out they're married to dancers, they drink alcohol, and they go to actors' birthday parties.
None of the things they do prove that they're men of religion.
After the revolution… right after the revolution, there got to be a lot of television and media. There got to be more TV channels, so there were a lot of Sheikhs. I mean, the Sheikhs found their freedom, so they pronounced whatever they wanted, even if it was wrong… they spoke without knowledge. For instance, they'd say, "There are infidels!"
I don't know if that was a kind of indirect incitement or provocation of the people. I mean, God knows, but I haven't seen those strange people arrested—and that's what's weird.
There were people who used the word as a sort of threat against simple people—people with simple minds—to say that an infidel is someone really terrifying, someone who's going to get you into a lot of trouble. "I swear to God they're going to hell!" They made everyone infidels and they زهقوها في عيشتها made their lives impossible to the point that they really believed that they were infidels, so  فطلعت على الدين بسببهم they took it out on religion for that reason.
All of that was hysteria.
You're only supposed to call someone an infidel in the event that they curse the prophet, or they يتريق على الذات الإلهية deny the divinity of God.
No one can call another person an infidel, at all.
Not even the Sheikh of al-Azhar has the right to call someone an infidel. To call someone an infidel, you need a certain number of scholars to validate that the person has really committed an infidelity. I mean, you've got people who are atheists—atheists!—who don't even recognize that there even is a God, and you can't even call them infidels. 
There is no compulsion in religion. You cannot call someone an infidel. Ultimately, you can't coerce anything; you can't force Islam on anyone. You can only use persuasion.
It's up to you how you deal with different people أنت لك بإن إنت تعامل بني آدم معاك عامل إزاي, but infidel, Muslim, Christian—that's up to God. It's none of your business.
It's none of your business what's between me and God. Between me and God, I am free.
I've taken the word out of my own dictionary now; I don't even use it for atheists. I don't even think that it's a word that should be allowed at all. For me, it's like an insult and an obscenity.
Whether it's a Muslim calling a Muslim an infidel, a Christian calling a Christian an infidel, a Christian a Muslim, or a Muslim a Christian, it's an atrocity in our society. We all have to stand against it. How's it my business what their religion is? It's none of their business what my religion is. What's important to me is what you do, and where you want to get to.
If you really want to enforce right and wrong, enforce it on yourself before you enforce it on us. You're not going to tell me if I'm an infidel or not; you're not going to tell me what's right and wrong. God sent the Qur'an and I'm going to read it and see. Depending on what I read, I'll say what's right and wrong.
People have understood that. Maybe they understood it late, but that might be to our benefit. This faction of people in our society had to appear, to become known to people, so that they can't trick us again. They can't trick us in the name of religion, or in the name of Islam.







