An informant is a person who works with the government—with the police—but wears street clothes, goes to live amongst people, and tells the police what's going on with those people. Or, they help the police to perform certain tasks while wearing ملابس ملكي street clothes.
An informant helps a police officer. See, when the officer wants to arrest, like, people who deal drugs, he sends the informant somewhere to follow their comings and goings—to hear what they say and everything. The informant follows them, and then, after finding out what they're doing and seeing everything, the informant goes and tells the officer. That's an informant.
I don't like informants. An informant could come here while we we're making this recording and take us or whatever.
When I was a kid in Helwan, there was a worker in the local bakery whom a police officer wanted to make into an informant or a guide for the precinct. The officer wanted to pay the worker. The guy kept refusing, and the officer kept pressuring him, until one day the guy couldn't take the pressure anymore, and he went up on top of the sugar cane juice shop in the market and killed himself in front of everyone. Right before he died, he said to people that he was killing himself because the officer wouldn't leave him alone.
Informants and the like—I mean, those little people—give a bad reputation to the police. Their behavior makes you think that they got into that sort of work because they're deficient in some way. They feel like they don't have any purpose, and that it gives them a purpose or gives meaning to their existence. You feel like they're dogs for the people in charge.
There's something inhuman in them. I've been in an interrogation before, and I swear to God they took the handcuffs off the first detainee they brought in, sent him inside and put him in front of a dog. They sent the dog in with the interrogating officer, and I heard screams coming from inside. I said, "Goddamn!" We we are a line of people going in, and each one of us had an informant with us. Goddamn, were we beaten… but it was recorded. 
They're not competent enough to deal with human beings. If they treated animals the way they treat people, they wouldn't get any kind of job.
I was walking along the sea, coming home from tutoring. I went on to a street that I didn't know was blocked—I thought if I took it, I'd certainly come out onto Gamal Abdel Nasser Street. So I was walking, and I saw some people coming to stop us. It was obvious that they were informants: "Why are you coming down this street behind this girl?" — What girl?! I looked, and there really was a girl walking there. "Anyhow, she's not with us. We're not following her. We're going to Gamal Abdel Nasser Street." — "Sure, buddy. You didn't know this street's blocked?" — I said, "I didn't know it was blocked." — "Alright, but what did you throw over there?" — I swear, none of us threw anything. Yeah, so we were searched of course; we got the full treatment, and whatever. They went and told the officer who was standing there, "These guys were following a girl. They had something with them and they threw it away." Of course, then they took us and sorted us out. They took us to the precinct, but thank God we got out as soon as we got there. What's more is that this story I'm telling you happened when I was in third grade. We were kids. More than that, it was obvious that they were arresting little kids—students with homework in our hands. 
An informant is someone with a kind of power in their hands to hurt other people—especially poor people, I mean. At the same time, it's a curse word. I mean, sometimes it's an insult and sometimes it's a source of power. But at the end of the day, it's one of those distasteful things for people.
Before and after the revolution, the character of the informant is someone who collaborates with the government in order to tell on people who deviate from the path or who are doing anything revolutionary—who are doing anything that diverges from the government or the people in power.
For the revolutionaries, an informant is someone who embeds themselves among us as though they are one of us, who knows what we're doing and how we're protesting. They tell the competent authority—either the police or the Army, whoever's in charge at the time—they tell them about the protests, the sit-ins, and the movements we make. 
On April 6th, 2008, I went out in the morning for the protests. There were supposed to be protests on April 6th for the first time. I went out of the apartment with three of my friends. We went out and went to Talaat Harb Square. There wasn't a single civilian in the street. Everyone who was there was either a police officer or a Central Security conscript. We went to Tahrir Square, where there was also nothing happening. Then we ran into two more friends I knew, and there was a third person with them that we didn't meet. I mean, when I went and said hi to them, they didn't introduce me to him. No one said, "This is so-and-so," or anything, so that was it. I was shy to say hi to him, and I didn't know his name. We went back to Talaat Harb to see what was happening, and all that time this guy who was with my friends stayed with us, all the time we were coming and going. There was nothing in Talaat Harb, just Ghad Party had a PA going from above, I think. We were all journalists, so we finally decided to go sit in the Nile Coffee Shop that looks out on to Tahrir Square, to wait there to see what would happen for the reports we'd write for the newspapers and websites we worked for—if anything happened. We got to the coffee shop and went to sit down inside. I looked to Ahmed and said, "Where did your friend go, the one that was with you?" — He said, "What friend? There was no one with me." — I said, "No, there was a guy with a light beard with you when we came and said hi to you. You didn't introduce us and I was shy to say hi to him. Was he shy, too, and decided to leave?" — He said, "No, actually I thought he was with you." — I said, "You mean he wasn't with you?" — He said, "No." — I said, "He wasn't with us either. Well then, he was an informant." We were just finishing up that conversation when the guy passed in front the coffee shop, looked towards us, signaled to someone, and kept on going. Just after he passed, an ensemble from the Ministry of the Interior came in: four officers, and I don't know, maybe twelve soldiers. They made a blockade around the coffee shop and stuff, and they came in to arrest us. But the funniest thing is that as soon as they came in, everyone in the coffee shop got up and saluted them. They were all informants! Everyone who was sitting in the coffee shop was an informant!  
To be wary that the person right next to you might be with the police means that you can't deal with them as a human being, at all. If you think there's one informant among every ten people, you'll find out how different the conversation will be.
Informants are so obvious! They've always been obvious. They wear sweaters and pants, and the sweater's always leather. They all buy them from the same place. There's this nylon kind—one of them is a dark color and there's a gray one… those sorts of colors. They have, like, "Getty Star," written on the back. That's what informants wear.
I don't think informants have changed before and after the revolution. There's has been no change in them.
Before and after the revolution, informants have the same meaning: those repugnant motherfuckers. 
