It's a really, really weird word. Needless to say, it didn't appear during the revolution, but when the Muslims Brothers began to seek power. They said, "The Islamist party," "The Islamists demand such and such." I felt like I was on one side and they were on another. We are Muslims and lived all of our lives as Muslims; we fast, we pray, we do everything for God. What are these Islamists? Why?
I swear, before the revolution it was completely clear what an Islamist was. We knew the Islamic groups were those that belonged to us—the Azhar Sheikhs—and we were completely certain that they were the ones who understood the religion. If I had a question about religion, I would go to them. I completely trusted that they would give me the right opinion, because they were scholars and they were the ones who could interpret.
Islamists is a word used after the revolution to describe the religious people who go out in demonstrations, but who go out with a religious sentiment. Like the Muslim Brothers, whose logo is the Qur'an and the sword, so they call them an Islamist organization.
Islamists are people who use religion as a means to power; people who claim that Islam is the only solution for the country's problems. I love the religions, and I am not against them as a religious ideology.
But it got really messed up because they got into politics. It's haram—I swear to God it's haram to bring Islam into politics. Totally. Anyone who gets into politics gets ripped apart; anyone in the world who gets into politics gets ripped apart. Like Mohamed Morsi, like the Muslim Brothers. None of them should have gotten into politics that much, they shouldn't put one of their members in the presidency, and والحرية والعدالة يبقى ماسك أموال الشعب كله! freedom and justice is the currency of the whole people.
There will always be a religious ideology in any state. In a Christian state, you'll find an ideologically Christian political party; in a Jewish state, you'll find a Jewish political party. What's the problem with creating an Islamist alliance or an Islamist movement with your convictions? As long as you are an Islamist who accepts the other with an open mind, who doesn't call the other an infidel, go ahead. You have an idea? What's the problem? It's your idea. You're free. That's liberalism; that's what I think it is to be a real liberal. You are an Islamist, ok. Don't oblige me to anything, at least on a private level. It's my right to drink alcohol in my own home, as long as I don't go out in the street and harm others around me.
Long ago, religion was the thing that governed everything. It was going the right way in the time of Umar ibn al-Khattab and those people.
Go read the history of Islam, find out what the righteous Caliphs were doing and how the justice system worked in those days, and then try to enforce it now. Basically, these days there are a lot of factors in our politics, even those abroad—dealing with America takes its own kind of conduct, dealing with the West, with Israel, and with the Gulf nations. We deal with other people, so it'd be really difficult to bring Islam into it.
We are in an era now where we can't… it's impossible for Islam to… I mean, Islam is one thing and politics is another completely different thing. You can't mix the two together.
There can't be anything called Islamists. This country belongs to all of us. We've lived and we'll die together, we'll be together today and tomorrow, present, past, and future. We are Muslims and Christians living in one country. This land belongs to all of us, and we can't say that it's a Christian land, or a Muslim land, or… We are all Copts. Egyptian Coptic Muslims and Christians. We eat from one plate and drink from the same cup, we live together, we remember together, we share in each other's joys and sorrows.
Islamist is a dirty word and it tarnished the image of Muslims across the world.
I don't like this word at all, it's supposed to be متأسلمين. In the Arabic language, a متأسلم is one who claims Islam. Meaning, they have convictions in something completely different from correct Islam. But Islamist…we're all Islamist, all of the Islamic countries and Muslim people. We are all here on the Muslim Egyptian land.
If I got someone who isn't Muslim, someone from abroad—America or something—and said to them, "Islamists," they will deduce from it the word 'terrorism.' Why? Of course the story of bin Laden and all of that, you get me?
So now the solution is that we cleanse the word Islam in general and the word Muslim to spread it in the right way. The first thing our Lord said in the Qur'an was on Islam. He said that Islam would be the religion of peace, not terrorism. Whoever admires Islam and wants to become Muslim sees that Islam is a religion of mercy and peace. There's no instruction to blow someone up, to murder someone, even if that person is an infidel right in front of me.
I am one of the people—and maybe what I think is wrong—but I wish that this country would either be completely Muslim or completely Christian. I wouldn't be against that. If the whole country was Muslim, or the whole country was Christian, I wouldn't object. I wish that there would be a complete religious unification so that there wasn't Muslim and Christian. So that I wouldn't be afraid to go into someone's house, because I'm afraid that I'll be killed because they are Muslim. 

 
