Itihadiya Palace is the presidential palace. Itihadiya Palace was attacked by citizens in protests in the days of President Morsi, in an extremely  atrocious way. 
Mohamed Morsi is on trial for killing people that were protesting in front of Itihadiya Palace. There is a case against him. 
The largest march I ever walked in was one that was going to Itihadiya Palace—the one that was against the constitutional announcement. We started in front of Nour Mosque and ended at the gate of the palace. We spent hours on the way.
We went out on Tuesday to go to Itihadiya Palace. It was the best way we knew to get our voices heard by His Excellency, the one who calls himself the President. Honestly, at the time Central Security Forces were standing there. They made space for us, giving us a chance to cross over and get inside the Palace. But honestly, Central Security Forces tricked us, letting the youth jump over the wall and get inside, so that people were trapped inside.
What happened the next day is that around three in the afternoon there were calls out to the youth, "Get ready! The Muslim Brothers are coming to drive us out of here." Suddenly, a group came from the direction of the road that takes you next to the Palace on the way to Korba. They were just protesting—they spent three and a half hours just demonstrating and ومشادات—and then some people among them started to put up cordons and iron barriers between us and them.
We were sitting-in. We were sitting-in peacefully. The Muslim Brotherhood organization came upon us: "The great power of faith, Morsi's men are everywhere." They came violently, assaulting the women that were with us, and assaulting the Christians that were in the heart of the camp, too. We were sitting-in peacefully and they came upon us, tearing up the camps with sticks and chains. They came at us like… like they were battling Jews.
They didn't do anything but assault people in a terrible way. There was no one there who wasn't assaulted.
And we went out to Roxy Square.
It was around eight o'clock when the youth started getting together and arriving in marches. The clashes started at the gate of the Palace itself. Pellets were fired, live fire, bottles and rocks were thrown… until the people in the neighborhood started coming out and assaulting them. They gave us gas to make Molotov cocktails to throw at them. We started to retaliate against them.
There was a moment around dawn when we reached the Palace and were going to get them out of the Square and continue our sit-in. The police are the ones who rescued them and started assaulting us along with them, with pellets and tear gas. 
Of course the security came… Central Security Forces, who go along with every regime. They came upon us, assaulting us with tear gas and pellets. The police didn't assault us, but they stood alongside and watched. I mean, they left people to kill each other. The Interior Minister forgot his responsibility and the responsibility of his officers: that they should go in amongst the people, and if there is someone who dies it should be them, because they are rescuing people or protecting the citizens. 
If all of Morsi's agents عمايله are tarnished, then Itihadiya tarnished them, and I imagine as well that it tarnished all of us, too. The idea that citizens stood against citizens… In the end, it's very clear in my opinion that the police as an institution decided to allow organized militias; even more, they allowed them as an alternative to the apparatus of oppression that we've been accustomed to all of our lives. I mean, it's alright for us to be afraid of the police.
Dr. Mohamed Morsi became the President of the country, so it's imperative… imperative that we respect his term, whatever his mistakes. What happened at Itihadiya Palace is boorish and vile. Maybe that wouldn't be my opinion… maybe I'd have a a different opinion if there wasn't an Islamist in power. Maybe my opinion would be different in another situation with another president, six years from now or whatever. If there's a president who comes and does things that the Islamists don't like, maybe we will go and demonstrate at Itihadiya, but we would never reach the point of breaking into the {alace. We might protest in the normal way—the way that doesn't wound the entity of the State or the head of the State.
There was negligence in regards to guarding the President. No one could have attacked him in that way if the authorities hadn't been negligent in guarding and protecting him. It's clear that the authorities—who are the Army—were negligent towards him.
Now the Itihadiya Palace has completely changed. No one can cross in front of it or get within a certain distance of it. It wasn't like that at all in the days of Mohamed Morsi. It was just normal there. There was more freedom.
What happened at Itihadiya created a problem for everyone with a beard. Now, they might be assaulted or killed in the street.