An armored car is a car with tires—with four wheels—that has something to protect it. Oh man, does it fire gas from above. That's the general understanding of an armored car.
Recently, they make the armored car with a window at the top. It has a tower and it opens like this to let the soldiers out. It has two doors at the back that open and close, two doors on the side for the soldiers, and two doors in front for the driver and an officer.
Before the revolution, I thought that armored cars belonged to the Army, but after the revolution I saw the ones that belong to the police. So, I found out that there were armored cars for the police—for riots and that kind of thing.
I never, ever saw an armored car. They were on TV, like when Mubarak was at a military ceremony or something. That's when we saw armored cars.
On the 28th, I saw them with my own eyes, when they were firing tear gas canisters.
After the revolution, the armored car and the paddy wagon became things you would normally see in the street.
In the time we're in, the armored car has become an easy thing—basically easier than the paddy wagon. It goes out and does its thing. The armored car has become something really regular.
Just today, when I was coming to work, there was a motorcade for the governor, as he was going to get the General Prosecutor from the airport. In front of him were two of the Army's armored cars. I was driving my car, thinking that an armored car might hit me. It scared me. Or in the revolution, they would go out in the streets and really shake the buildings. They were annoying.
I was injured in the Qasr al-Aini clashes. An armored car went and عملت خمسات spun around, and I was hit. I fell on an iron protrusion. It went into my head and then the armored car went and kept on hitting me. My shoulder, my hand, and my spine were broken. I have a crack in my spine, I got five stitches on my head, and my whole face was messed up.
We saw armored cars at Maspero, running into people like it was totally normal. Speed bumps… people were speed bumps for the armored cars.
At the time of the assault on State Security, we were in Matrouh. Alexandria Street was full of people… totally full! We went out with an armored car. We were supposed to be four soldiers, a police officer, and the driver. The driver they got wasn't a driver; I mean, he really wasn't a driver at all, sorry to say. I mean, sorry, but he seriously didn't know anything about driving. The person who drives the armored car is supposed to have a qualification—a qualification to drive an armored car. He should know how to drive it, how to back it up, when to do what with it. A police officer was coming out of the car to fire gas, and while he was coming out, the car shook. He ended up firing inside the armored car. Obviously, when he fired, it hit the ceiling and fell on the ground. It filled the whole armored car and all of us were tearing up. Yeah, so hurry up, get the hose going! There's a hose that's a hundred and twenty centimeters long inside the thing. He kept looking for the button—I swear he got the fire extinguishers working, he got a lot of things working that there was no need for. He was pushing all the armored car's buttons in order to get the hose working. He got out the instruction manual and kept looking through it and stuff to find out where the hose was. Finally he figured it out. But, I mean, why?!
There are a lot of armored cars that are broken. I've ridden in good ones, ones that are working, and ones that are broken. I've been in all of them. I've been in a lot of armored cars. I swear I used to sit for twenty-four hours inside an armored car. Of course, I'd sleep in them, I'd do everything in them; I'd sleep, wake, eat, drink… everything.
I had the armored car and the paddy wagon experience when I was arrested on January 20th, 2013. An armored car is a closed car; it takes two officers in the front, someone to fire gas, and eight soldiers. That's supposed to be its capacity. We were twenty-eight people inside the armored car, and of course we weren't sitting down. So, everyone had a part of their body in one place, and the rest in another place. It's miserable… miserable to ride in an armored car. The amount of insults and humiliation and other things you witness…
In my opinion, an armored car shouldn't be sent out except when there's terrorism. But to go out for regular humans who just want to go out and protest… Treat them normally. You can't sent out an armored car among civilians. An armored car means you are going to war. 
But it's not full armor. Like, if I'm a soldier sitting inside an armored car and there's gunfire around me… if there's shooting at the armored car, I'll for sure get injured. It's all  fiberglass… fiberglass that lets any machine gun shot get right inside the armored car.
The Army or the police are supposed to use the armored car when there's… I'm not gonna say protests and things like that, no… The armored car should be used when they are going out on an operation, on a mission, and that mission is dangerous. Whenever the armored car goes out, there's a shitstorm— it's basically a disaster. 
But of course there are also good guys who set fire to the armored cars and the people inside. You heard that the people inside got hit. They got out and ran. Well, good day—any more of that and we'll be arrested.
Now, the police think they can push people around with the armored car. But the thing is, we're playing the police. You come over this way, and I send out some kids so that you go after them; then I get someone from the other side to get up and set the armored car on fire. The armored car has become… We play with it; it doesn't play with us. The armored car is our house and home; it brought us together. We lit the paddy wagon on fire. We burned the armored car down. We made love to the armored car… and that kind of thing.