Talaat Zakaria came out at the time of the revolution to say that everyone in Tahrir was having sex with each other, and everyone was getting a meal from KFC.
I remember KFC when Amr Adeeb was disparaging people, saying, "They're getting KFC meals." Except, I don't like KFC.
KFC is really bad in Egypt… I mean, really bad. The meat is brown on the inside, so you don't know exactly what you're eating. It's scary. Like, who wants to eat KFC?
The whole conversation makes you laugh. Like, first of all the people who went out in the revolution were youth who weren't poor. Many of the people weren't poor—it was the total opposite. So what's up with a KFC meal? Are people on summer vacation at the beach? Yeah, they're gonna like a KFC meal!
Actually, it was top comedy! Can you imagine that would actually be the thing that would make people go out into the streets? Certainly not to eat KFC!
KFC is nonsense. Beware, it's not Egyptian! So, KFC won't sacrifice itself for the people. On the contrary, KFC will close its doors. Pizza Hut, McDonald's, KFC, and all those fast food joints had to close their doors so they didn't lose customers—so they didn't lose themselves. Because what's important to KFC is that it sells meals at the end of the day. All that's important is their business.
Actually, KFC wasn't closed. It was burned down. I wish it had been closed! We used to go in there to rest a bit and charge our phones.
It was said that people in the revolution were totally spoiled when they were sitting in the Square. Actually, the truth is they were being shot at day and night, and all messed up by the gas. I mean, their lungs were completely KFC! Yeah, oh my God, they were totally fried chicken.
The word KFC is the strongest evidence of the completely corrupt media. Obviously, all that media promotion was just them trying to get rid of people. But people had passion inside, and they went out to see for themselves. Those are good people, but they are few. There aren't many; they're few. That's what you find out, later on.