Before the revolution, the Left meant any intellectual current that believed in social justice, rights of the poor, and workers' rights.
The Egyptian Left has a really righteous history of nationalist movements. They've always been peaceful and always worked with people in the streets, factories, and farms in order to raise their awareness and inform them of their rights.
The Left might not have a direct relationship to the context of the revolution.
But they were there on January 25th. Everyone who belongs to the Left was part of what was happening and went along with it, just as they went along with a lot of political factions. I mean, they change their attitudes and their affairs from one day to the next. It's bewildering. So, their positions… their positions aren't clear.
Of course the Egyptian Left played a role in the revolution, and the proof is in the slogans.
On the day of the resignation, people were cheering with joy, and everyone said, "That's it, let's go home." The Left were the first people to say, "The revolution continues."
Yeah, like, of course they played a role, whether in the chants or the marches that happened. They even have people working under-underground, I'm sure of that. But the idea is that the State eliminated them really early on, and that's what fed it and that's what destroyed it. There was no thought of resistance; the Left were the ones resisting.
In Abdel Nasser's time, before the Brotherhood was a target for oppression by the State, the Left was the State's target for oppression… even before the revolution, in the forties. They paid the price. But things went wrong in 1968 and after, with Sadat and the war, along with the variable of the collapse of the two blocs and the arrival of Germany. It caused the Left to be besieged all over the world, as an idea and as a social project—the political, social, and economic organization of society.  
We are a poor State, or a poor people, and presumably our ideas and our orientations are instinctively leftist, without intention. We all need to eat and to drink, and we need social justice. We don't want capital to enslave us or make us work for pennies. We all want to be equal to each other. Even though all of these ideas exist inside us, and these are our true needs, we are against all leftist ideas. We hate all leftist ideas, and the Left is weak here—they've been sent away and have no significance. So, we're contradictory in that.
The thing is that it's an advanced ideology that cannot achieve a true place in the Arab World, despite all the achievements they've made and the sacrifices they've made, because it will always be tied for the general public to atheism. Atheist Communist Left.
Reactionary thought: one has adopted modern thought and one has adopted old thought, because their interests are built on it. I mean, for example, Muhammad Ali Pasha—a man who came to rule and wanted to modernize Egypt. But we had, like, Al-Azhar sticking to fundamentalism. Why? Interests. I mean, that's the problem. They go and say, "We have seven thousand years of civilization,"—whatever civilization means I have no idea—but the problem is restricted to the last two hundred and fifty years, between the progressive and the reactionary.
My dad was a leftist guy, and I was born in a house that had a big bookshelf. Actually, our house isn't big—it's like eighty-something, ninety meters—so it took a big place in the house. Yeah, for the house it was an enormous bookshelf. There was like maybe a quarter of the bookshelf, and there were books on it, but behind them were more books… hidden books behind it. I used to see my dad take books from behind and put them back, and no one noticed. So when I was like in the offie and stuff, he'd say, "Who changed things around? Who was rummaging around in the bookshelf? Did someone come and rummage around in here?" — I'd say, "No, it was me." This part I remember perfectly: Capital by Karl Marx, What Is to Be Done? by Lenin, and books of that sort.
After the revolution, leftist thought started to spread in the community, and overrun social media pages. Leftist books started to appear and be exchanged, so the leftist vision began to crystallize and deepen for us. We thought that the Left was one orientation. After the revolution, all the orientations belonging to leftist thought started to appear, and each one was different from the others. At first it was the Nasserists and the nationalists, then on to the Democratic Socialists and the socialists, and orientations like Marxist-Leninism and Trotskyism along with Revolutionary Socialism. Leftist political parties started to appear, like the Popular Alliance Party, the Egyptian Socialist Party, the Workers and Laborers Party, along with the traditional parties like the Tugamma Party, Nasserist Party, and the Karama Party. They had more than one candidate who ran in the first presidential party, like Mr. Abu Al-Izz Al-Hariri and Hamdeen Sabahi. Then, the leftist activists started to appear, like Alaa Abdel Fattah. We heard later that the Socialist Union youth were also coming out in the governorates, and that socialist students were doing actions at the university. We started to see the word socialism a lot in the university. Opposition to the socialists began to appear, and pamphlets that talked about the socialist idea, social justice, and classification on the basis of class also started to appear. Some media personalities whom we didn't know were leftists started to show themselves as leftists. We knew they were respectable people, like Hamdi Qandil, Abdel-Halim Qandil who's Nasserist, and then Khaled Taleema showed up. So, the idea of the Left crystallized for us as a broad spectrum of various colors, each of which is different in its ideas and orientations, and in its means of achieving its ideas. So we started to split up, and we began to know what the differences between classes were—our basic differences according to class and our positions within classes. The social classes began to become more clear for us.
Most of the leftist parties, coalitions, and organizations in Egyptian don't follow leftist thought in the right way; they are just stuffed with very old communist socialist concepts. And between them, they are fighting a battle that even to this day is a historical battle, which would be shameful for us to enter into. You'll find, like, a Trotskyite group against a Leninist one, and they keep fighting about it. Neither Trotsky nor Lenin is still alive; they are just history and symbols. These are political and economic theories that you believe in, and it is within your rights to develop and amend them.
Let's have a look at leftist books right now. They're holding on to the words of Marx and Lenin; they've just stopped there. That's what they're lacking. I mean, they have to renew their ideas a bit, develop them a bit—develop them for the actual context. The Left is built on the dialectic, so there is no stability. You have to develop yourself. Don't just get stuck in the shadows! The people are all developing themselves.
Actually, the Left is essentially supposed to be built on the idea of workers, who are the class that is supposedly not really educated. Actually, the Left are very arrogant people who isolate themselves from the community. When, right after the revolution, we had meetings for people working in civil society and we heard what people said, they were like, "No, the things you're saying aren't intellectual." There is contempt for those who are outside of their circle, even though they are actually supposed to be basically defending the rights of workers.
I really love the romantic ideas of the Left. Actually, the world is more real than necessary. We need for people to be a bit romantic. How long have we been in this State? It has to be at least seven thousand years. Maybe it's more; maybe it's thirty thousand years; maybe it's even more than that. The place we're in, the whole government… I mean, this whole place is a failure. The whole place is a failure because we're not successful. Whose fault is that? It's everyone's fault.


