I didn't even know this word.
Before the revolution, Egyptians didn't know anything about legitimacy, because Hosni Mubarak ruled so he always had legitimacy. In thirty years, no one gave him a problem.
Mubarak's regime didn't even have any legitimacy to begin with. The regime ruled you for thirty years without elections… without, without, without… The regime ruled with an iron shield called the police… ok? So what legitimacy?!
After the presidential elections and Morsi, the word legitimacy started to appear.
The word legitimacy spread after Morsi's rule, when El-Sisi deposed him.
After the problems he faced, when he started to feel a kind of rejection, he started using the word legitimacy, repeating it every day.
The people started to think that Morsi's regime was pretty much a failure, a regime that couldn't manage the state, right? So, some people thought that the regime had lost its legitimacy. 
The Brotherhood used the word legitimacy more than they used any other word, to mean that Morsi had legitimacy so he couldn't leave.
Whenever there's more corruption, the Muslim Brothers say, "We have legitimacy… legitimacy… legitimacy." Well, we also have legitimacy. What does legitimacy mean?
Obviously, legitimacy comes from the people. 
The people give legitimacy, because they're the ones who elect the person they want to represent them and fulfill their demands. That's the people's legitimacy.
It isn't that we support Morsi as a person, but the thing is… the idea is legitimacy: that the people rule themselves after they've been ruled in spite of themselves. Of course, Morsi was the first Egyptian president that the people elected of their own will, without any intervention or interference. 
Yeah, Morsi was a president who came with legitimacy, who came by elections. Alright! I was with him in that, but he didn't continue… you didn't fulfill the people's demands, and you damned your own self. You said, "One hundred days." You limited yourself to one hundred days. In a hundred days, you didn't do what you said you would do. I know there's something called legitimacy: that you would execute the people's demands. 
No—the regime had legitimacy to stay for four years and finish its term.
There were more people against him than elected him, so of course the vote was void.
The people's legitimacy now comes from the Square, the place where the people gather.
Now there are a hundred meanings of legitimacy!
Legitimacy is a word that anyone weak says. Whenever anyone gets some power and tries to persuade the people with the word legitimacy, it means they are not strong.
There pretty much wasn't any legitimacy for anyone.
Legitimacy's been screwed. Someone says, "I've got legitimacy." — "Oh where? You mean, in my bag?"

 