I heard liberals once or twice before the revolution, but I didn't really focus on it. I knew that they were people with a liberal ideology in political matters.
For me, this word didn't exist before the revolution or have any meaning. The context was very closed before the revolution, so all of the liberal ideas weren't called liberalism. Everything was kept under wraps, and… and whenever we got together to talk, a million people would look around—a million eyes looking everywhere, because there was no guarantee who was listening to us and who would do what with what we said. There was enormous fear of even pronouncing the word, not just expressing its ideas. 
I heard the word liberals a lot. I know that there are people called liberals in the country; they call themselves liberals. I don't know what it means. Why do they use the English word 'liberal'? Are they not Egyptian? Is it, like, another way of thinking? Like, what is a liberal?
Because I studied it, I could go on and on about liberalism. Actually, I did research on it in college. Liberalism is freedom—personal freedom, not freedom of peoples, I mean. You do what you want as long as you don't harm anyone, as long as you don't hurt them, and as long as you don't infringe on their freedom. Like, liberalism literally means freedom.  
Me, I went and searched for them on the internet. I think they're like communists in the past, like people's rule, just the people… the idea is that all power is in their hands. I mean, dismantling capitalism, you know? That's the idea… like, that's what I understand.
But I think people describe other people with the word liberals, and their ideas aren't liberal. Like, these liberals are a group of people who present themselves by saying, "We're liberals," but like anyone now whose ideological orientation is a bit liberal, they're just saying, "I'm liberal."
People say the word, but they don't know its meaning. They're not convinced of the word, because most liberals are the same people who are least willing to listen to others. Liberals in Egypt are convinced that everything that comes from the West is good, and anyone who opposes them is wrong. So where's the liberalism in that?
Liberals in Egypt are really busy with their social dimension. But the truth of the matter is that the liberalist ideology is an economic ideology, and that is was creates liberal culture. Laissez-faire, free economy, market mechanisms, etcetera, etcetera—that's what produces liberalism.
We have the opposite: liberalism is an ideology that comes from the children of the middle class and their affiliations and loyalties, from the children of the socialist experiment who've been educated in free schools, who've graduated from free Egyptian universities, etcetera, etcetera. They talk about liberalism as a program with freedom, expression, freedom of expression, the freedom to protest, etcetera, etcetera. But very few people in Egypt talk about liberalism as an economic program, and very few of the original children of the free capitalist experiment in Egypt talk about liberalism, either.
There's a huge problem with the term. How do you deal with it, when you have a reactionary balance to start with? How do you deal with it as a progressive? And, the opposite: you are progressive, you are a child of the socialist experiment, and you are dealing as well with your reactionary and liberal considerations, etcetera, etcetera.
For me, I think liberalism is two things: there is absolute liberalism and there is natural liberalism—the naturally acquired rights that are acceptable to Egyptians and the East. I don't think absolute liberalism exists. It won't happen and it can't be achieved, even if its leaders exist in Egypt. Because the whole society attacks it and will continue to attack it, even if they get their rights.
It's my belief that the period of the 1919 Revolution—the twenties, the thirties, and up to before the [1952] Revolution—is what created the free market, what created the textile and the cinema industries, what created literature and the novel, what created the role of the publisher, etcetera, etcetera… This short liberal experiment was doomed to end at the hand of Gamal Abdel Nasser with the stroke of his pen.
The liberals don't have a broad base of public support. Is it going to be possible for them to run in the elections and have a presidential candidate win? I doubt it. It's the same thing for the Left—for the Left, the liberals, and the seculars.





