I think the machine gun is a cool thing in people's minds. The imagination of generations who were raised in front of the television is tied to the bratatat! Like, whenever you say the word "machine gun" to anyone, they don't flinch… it's normal. Everyone says, "Yeah, man, we've got a machine gun." — "I shoot machine guns." — and whatever else. In Upper Egypt it's a symbol of struggle, a symbol of family power. The kids in Upper Egypt all learn how to shoot a machine gun when they're ten years old, but its use on someone they know is an agony.
Of course, before the revolution people saw it a lot. You'd be walking next to a soldier and see that he had a machine gun. 
Three quarters of the police's weapons don't work. Their weapons are more or less broken, I mean. Maybe the only ones that work are Egyptian-made. When we'd go to the التبة , to the arsenal, you'd take an Egyptian weapon out and not anything else… a Russian one or whatever… we wouldn't take anything else. And why? The firing pin could be broken, so it wouldn't fire right away; the barrel could be معوجة ; it could be missing the حربي  and if you're missing the حربي then you wouldn't take it from the arsenal. Get it?
At first, no one heard the sound of machine guns in Cairo. No one knew what they sounded like, except in fights between really big families or people with roots in Upper Egypt or whatever. When they used them in fights, it got a really strong reaction from security. Whenever there was a fight, Egyptian security wouldn't get involved, but it's well known that whenever there were guns fired in a fight, the government would go in and they wouldn't leave anyone who had anything to do with it nearby. They'd arrest everyone until they got the gun that'd been fired. Because of that, even the families that had weapons in Cairo—firearms, I mean—didn't use them much. 
After the revolution, of course everyone heard the sound of gunshots to the point that they no longer caused any great fear when you heard them nearby—outside the house or next door or in the street. In demonstrations, if you heard the sound of gunshots, you didn't really need to be scared. That was it; we got used to it to that degree.
I know the machine gun well. I used it in the Army. But when I was arrested on February 3rd after the morning of the Camel Battle, they sat me on the sidewalk under Galaa Bridge and put a machine gun up to my head. I don't know why, but at the time I was smiling a lot. I didn't… I didn't feel worried about that machine gun.
I remember March 9th, 2011. I was at home on Bustan Street. When we were sitting there, the clearing of the sit-in started… the one with the Army officers. I started to hear gunshots and stuff, machine guns and I don't know what. And I was like, "Should I go out?" and they were like, "No, don't, stay here with us and stuff, we're not going out." Anyway, we heard gunshots and I decided to stay with my friends because the sound of gunshots wasn't important. I mean, it's normal to hear the sound of a machine gun because they were always shooting them, since the eighteen days up till that day. It was really normal to hear machine gunfire every night where I lived. Up till I heard the sound of the half cannon. That's when I said, "No, now something is really happening, and I've got to go out and find out what."
All I know about it is that it was used against us more than once, and they used it just to kill us. They don't use it in war and they don't use it against the enemy; they use it against the revolutionaries and the demonstrators who are just going out to demand bread, freedom, and dignity in this country. I hope they don't keep using it against us, and that we aren't killed by it again.
