Palestine: that was my idea about the word martyr when I was young.
They were the martyrs, as I saw it—the people who died there as a result of defending their land. People wanted to take over their country, so they were the martyrs… until I witnessed the revolution.
I never experienced the word martyrs until after the revolution. Like, before that I would hear "the martyrs of 1973." Like, for me they were people who died and that's it.
And then we found out that we also had martyrs.
When I saw my friends or people close to them die—when I saw them die right in front of me—martyrs was for me a word with a great deal of honor.
Martyrs is the best word in the revolution and the best word in general, because for God it's something good and, like, something very valuable. It's also something very valuable for the revolutionaries and for everyone. They died and they were defending the most esteemed values: values of freedom, dignity, and humanity. They are the most valuable thing to us, and because of that we give glory to the martyrs and everyone who spilled their blood and sacrificed their lives for this country.
How many martyrs have there been since the revolution? We've gotten close to a million martyrs… Algeria… we've almost caught up to them.
Not everyone who dies anywhere and is called a martyr is a martyr. I mean, martyrdom should be with intention. 
Now everybody's a martyr, but not everyone has been martyred for what's right. A martyr is someone who gives their life for religion… for the freedom of others, for instance. 
For me, the meaning isn't related that much to sacrifice in the name of God or religion. For me, it's sacrifice in general. As I see it, any sacrifice is martyrdom.
Ultimately, only God knows who should be judged as a martyr and who shouldn't.
Obviously, everyone has their own intention. There are people who die and we call them martyr… martyrs… and their intention was to go out for something else. Only God knows their intention, and God will be the one who judges from beginning to end.
Anyone who dies treacherously is a martyr to me, starting from the first day of the revolution up till now, no matter what their ideology… or whatever.
I don't think that anyone who dies should be called a martyr. The first ruler was unjust, and the second. The government is unjust, it's unjust… so in that case you are unjust to yourself. You put yourself in the martyr category. Like now, for instance, any troublemakers who come out, throw stones, and get shot, get to be martyrs. Why are they martyrs? Why did they martyr themselves? Did they martyr themselves for what's right, or throw stones and become martyrs of destruction and ruin?
Now it has become commonplace; we don't think there are martyrs. We just keep calling them infiltrators. Like, now we think they died in a wicked way.
The martyr that I love the most, the one I really love: Sheikh Emad Effat. A lot of things are expressed in him. He shows that the protesters who went out at the time were not thugs, as people said. On the contrary! He was from Al-Azhar, and he was martyred at the time.
How many were they? How many martyrs have died for nothing?!
Of course, there are thousands. And, when it reaches the thousands, people can no longer remember, or they can't admit that they can no longer remember. I mean, I've reached my limit. 
The people who were shot at the beginning were martyrs. But after that, God knows.
Now, you find people supporting murder. They say, "To hell with it, man. What were they doing there?" — "They're in the Army, so they should die." — "They're Muslim Brothers, so they should die." All of that is really, truly, totally haram. It's scary, but we've gotten to be just like the Israelis. Our hearts are completely cold, just like them.
Now I think that we're even worse than the Israelis, in that… like, our Army and our police are worse than the Israelis. They're killing their own people, Egyptian people. Those are Egyptians from your own country and you are murdering them, so you're even worse than the Israelis who go kill people from another country that they don't even recognize.
The martyrs are people who sacrificed their lives so that no one would appreciate it. I mean, I'm sorry to say so, but it's the truth, I swear to God. Because when I remember the people who died and the people who sacrificed their lives from the beginning of the revolution, who thought that they were doing something and who believed in what they were doing… who didn't care if they died, who cared only that this country would change… and then I see people singing and dancing…
And we haven't gotten their rights, and their demands haven't been achieved. Just as though the revolution never happened, and just as though those martyrs never died.
There was something written on a wall. It said, "Glory to the martyrs." The first time I saw that in Egypt, I was taken aback. I was annoyed, because "Glory to the martyrs" means that we don't know who the martyrs are. They're just martyrs without names and faces, and that's the end; like, no one wants to remember them. 
These people died for something, and we won't get their rights. Only God can give them their rights. These people… the martyrs… are damned in this country. They sacrificed so the country could forget them.
They didn't deserve to die so these kind of people could live: so that someone like Abdelfattah El-Sisi could come in the end and rule, so that the corrupt media could keep going as though the revolution never happened, so that they could keep living and the poor people could remain in their condition. God have mercy on their souls. 
God have mercy on my friends. God have mercy on Gika, whose rights up till now we've kept fighting for, and will keep on fighting for, along with all the people who died. Just because El-Sisi is in charge now doesn't mean we won't go out to the streets again. No! We'll go out and get the rights of our friends, whatever happens.
The martyrs got their rights as soon as their blood was spilled—they went to get spoiled by our dear Lord above. Are you seeking their freedom? What are you looking for? The media tells you, "The rights of the martyrs."
The martyrs get a huge reward from God. When they were martyred, they weren't looking for an honor from the State or anything. Their reward from God was enough. But we have to commemorate them, we have to honor them in a better way than we do. Like, I think the martyrs have gotten their rights, ok, but how can we forget them? Why don't they celebrate the martyrs every year; why don't they put up the pictures of the martyrs who died in the revolution? There has to be someone who always remembers them, someone to remember them even if just to plant the seed of passion for the coming generations. You know what I mean?





