Before the revolution, all that people knew about Maspero was that it was the media building.
My dad works behind Maspero, so when I was a kid I used to go by there all the time. I'd come and go, and I even went inside when I was in school to do a show, but it wasn't anything for me. Like, what's Maspero?! I don't even remember whether they called it Maspero; I don't even remember that. All these words, which were certainly words that existed in my dictionary, didn't have any meaning. They were empty words.
Maspero is more or less the media. 
When I hear Maspero, I might remember the massacre that happened there.
Everything changed. The place, with the incidents that happened there and their significance… That's it, its significance isn't just the media. Now, it's not like that. Now, it's blood. Maspero means blood.
At Maspero, people were demanding their rights, and then they were massacred.
That day, the Christians went out to protest in front of Maspero.
They went out to demand something specific. They got to the building that houses the media; they got close to the building that's an important institution in this country.
It's the one place that, when the revolution happened, people couldn't get into. No one could touch it; they couldn't even get in the door. That's Maspero. It's the one place that was forcefully guarded. People were even able to reach the Ministry of Defense—they got up to the walls of the Ministry of Defense.
I was at work… I was coming home from work, when I found out that the sit-in was being cleared. I was on October Bridge, and they closed the bridge. It was all soldiers, and whoever crossed on foot got searched. There was only space for cars to pass. I got on a bus and got out underneath the bridge; I went to the sit-in.
For me, Maspero was the first time that I smelled gunpowder in the air. How much I remember that smell: the gunpowder in the air and the burning tires.
The armored cars came and ran them down; they totally ran them down. It was a massacre. 
They killed the youth and ran them down with armored cars. More than forty people were killed by the Army's armored cars. 
Mina Daniel died there. He was one of the best and bravest youth who went out on January 25th. He was shot by the Army… by the junta… by SCAF who was ruling at the time. Of course, we differentiate between the Army and the junta, because the junta was in power… the ones with power in the country; but the Army is the country's Army, and of course, we aren't against them.
Mina Daniel was hit by a bullet. The bullet was a خارقة, as they say, the kind that goes in and kills right away. Whose bullet was it? The police, the Army, a sniper, the Brotherhood, the third hand, the seventh hand… we don't know. We don't know and Mina Daniel died, and a lot of Christians died in the clearing of the sit-in; the Maspero massacre, not the clearing of the sit-in. It was a massacre.
For me, what happened at Maspero was discrimination against Christians, and from the same people who said, "Muslims and Christians are one hand," in the media. They—the broadcasters who said that—were the same people who incited people against the Christians at Maspero, and the same people who incited people to go out of their homes and stand with the Army while they hacked and killed people.
That was the time when I felt like the whole thing was going to go on for a long time. At first, I knew it was a big deal, but at that moment I realized that it was going to take a lot longer.


