Ok, so, a massacre is when there's, like, a fight, and if people are slaughtered and drowning in blood, and everything is calamity, it's called a massacre.
Before the revolution, massacre was a known word, like what happens to minorities around the world. Of course, historically there's been, like, the massacre at Sabra and Shatila camps in Lebanon.
Well now. Since 2011, we've seen a whole lot of massacres all the time. 
Massacre: Rabaa al-Adawiya.
For me, a massacre is what happened at Rabaa in 2013. That was really a massacre. The word exists, and after the revolution it existed, but it didn't get the meaning that comes to me now until after what happened at Rabaa.
I think there were many massacres; not just one.
It's not just one massacre. Let's count: on January 28th, there were issues; February 3rd; Mohamed Mahmoud; the Ministry of Ministers; the second Mohamed Mahmoud; the Institut d'Egypte; the Port Said massacre. That's seven. The people who died in Rafah in Ramadan: eight. Of course the clashes with Morsi—between Morsi's supporters and whatever—that's nine. At the Brotherhood headquarters, at Itihadiya at the time of the constitutional announcement: ten. The Guards massacre: eleven. Rabaa; the first and second Ramses; October 6th; August 8th… I mean, it's a lot.
It's not only tied to Rabaa. A whole lot of massacres happened. There's Maspero, and the ones in the Square itself. Itihadiya happened, too; that was in the days of Morsi. A lot of massacres also happened in Morsi's time, too; I mean, when he took power. There was what happened at Semiramis… I mean, there was a war and a massacre, too… like a lot of people killing each other. But in Egypt, yeah, it's kind of a new thing. We weren't used to seeing all that in such an atrocious way.
And Syria, and Libya…
I'm against… I'm against any blood being spilled in any place… I'm against blood, Egyptian blood, whoever's blood it is. If it's the blood of the police, the Army or citizens, Muslim Brothers or anyone. No one has the God-given right to spill anyone's blood, because that's essentially haram.
Like, we've all experienced really great pain. So we must, we must, we must take account. An account must be made.