The media is the most important thing. The media is trust. It's more important than the President himself. It reaches me, by way of sound or sight, or it comes to me in a newspaper. See how much it can do away with my thoughts. My thinking might be right, and the media makes it wrong. I don't know! It must give me what's accurate. What's available that's accurate. It is the eye of the crowd.
Look: the media broadcasts all the vocabulary in the world. Someone says a word, but it's the media that says it to the people, and the people interpret it. I myself didn't know a lot of words. They teach us to talk.
We're sitting around, not knowing what's going on in the country, in any other governorate. We don't know, right? We're in a governorate and they're in a governorate. Say something happens to them—it's the media that tells us everything that happens in the country. That's the media. 
There are a lot of people who depend on it. There are people who don't have internet, so they have TV.
I was born in Egypt in 1975. Until I was eleven years old, there were only three channels on TV. When I left Egypt at eleven, there were five or six channels or so, and there were very few people who had a satellite dish. There was nothing on TV except the news, three times a day, and the same stuff was constantly repeated. All of it was about what the President did today: what he ate, what he drank, if he changed his tie, who he visited and who visited us, who we made up with today and who we're going to curse off tomorrow. That was the normal stuff every day, on every channel. The rest of the time there were music videos and TV, and one foreign soap opera. In five years, when I came back to Egypt for the first time, I noticed that everyone had a satellite dish—the porter had a satellite dish, and at our house we had three so that everyone could choose to watch what they wanted.
Before the revolution I couldn't even pull myself away from it—movies and stuff, any show. Before the revolution, I enjoyed everything that was on to the point that I might not even go to bed.
Nobody talked about politics much. Right before the revolution, there was just boiling, boiling, boiling in the streets, and in the media nothing at all. People were running in the streets, everything was ruined; there was no bread, meat was expensive, nothing to drink, no one could find anything to eat, and the media said, "The country is well," and "At least our economy is stable: it neither rises or falls, thank God."
Obviously, the media changed. That you would see someone going out with a camera broadcasting directly from the street, walking amongst the people—that never happened. That a music video would be shot in the middle of the Square and that it would be the first clip from the heart of the Square—that never happened, in any circumstance. Personally, when I saw that I cried. I don't cry, but when I saw that, I felt it in my body and I cried because… what do we have here? We're in the heart of the Square, people are walking and singing, and they're joyful about what they're doing. They aren't trying to be on camera or get on TV. Nothing makes any difference to them except that this person is with them, celebrating with them.
Maybe there was a time after the revolution started—the time when they started making all those new TV channels, like ONTV, Tahrir Channel, and so on—when all at once there was kind of more freedom. We weren't used to TV channels being like that, I mean. 
After the revolution started, all of the media personalities—like around ninety percent of them—claimed to be revolutionaries. Everyone on screen, on TV, and in writing claimed to be revolutionary. They claimed to be warriors and rebels.
Here, the revolution came and we didn't see the media. The media comes to find out the people's problems, to give an accurate picture. No one came to us here; no one gave an accurate picture.
Perhaps after the revolution, it started to change, and we felt it changing. But after the Brotherhood came to power, we immediately felt like we were going back to worse than before.
Things changed from January to June to now, and every little while things will change. Every little bit, you discover that who they considered to be good turns out to be bad, and who they considered to be bad turns out to be good. Where does that come from? From the absence of an accurate portrayal, since everything is blacked out; by the dirty role that the media plays.
When we went out to do the sit-in on the Friday of One Hundred Days, we spoke up about Morsi and we said, "Down with the Supreme Guide." The media said, "Those youth want to ruin the country." When they discovered that the youth were stronger, they said, "Let's stand with the youth." When they came back and found we'd gotten weaker again, when there were fewer people in the sit-in and it was cleared out, they went back to Morsi. They went and said, "The sit-in is a failure."
Obviously, the media is on one side and the public is completely on the other.
Before the revolution, I thought that the media wanted to convince me that it was telling the truth. Now, when they come out on TV, I feel like when the broadcasters speak they're secretly saying, "By the way, I'm a whore. And I know that you know that I'm a whore. But it's my job to talk and it's your job to listen."
The media, before and after what they call the revolution, was good at two things: in showing dancing and cavorting, and beating the drum—the two are related—beating the drum for the regime: "The President passed by," "The President thinks," — "The President speaks," — "The President prays," — "The President is great," — "The President is cool." That's what I call the fornication of the media. The same thing happens with El-Sisi: "El-Sisi walks," — "El-Sisi stands," — "El-Sisi gets up," — "El-Sisi goes to bed," — "El-Sisi is awake."
The last thing I watched was El-Sisi's last speech. People didn't talk about what he said, about his agenda, about how he hadn't wanted to run in the elections, or about how he is actually military, so are we going forward or backward? I think it would be natural to talk about those things. But no, what did they all talk about? I watched at least ten shows, and on every single one they were talking about whether he was wearing sunglasses or not. The backdrop behind him. Whether he would keep wearing his military uniform or not.
TV media hasn't changed at all. It's exactly the same because it just goes along with the regime. If they thought the regime was leftist, then TV would be leftist. Islamist, and they'd be Islamist. The media will go along with any regime.
Like for example Amr Adeeb, who said, "Hosni Mubarak is my dad." And then he said, "God appointed Morsi for us; he is a man of God." After that he said, "El-Sisi is the man for the coming Egypt."
Even the commercials are implicated, the normal advertisements for products. In the days of the Muslim Brotherhood, they were different. They took on a Brotherhood and Salafi look. Really! It was hysterically funny to sit and watch. Because that was what would sell at the time—it was its moment.
Look: I think that the media is like this pot of tea. This pot holds only one type of tea, not a hundred types. We all drink from the same cup. The whole media goes in one direction. There's no freedom. As long as there's no freedom, the media will be politicized. As long as the media is politicized, it will be deceitful. It will be the Antichrist. How can I trust it? I will never trust it.
After the revolution, what I think has changed in regards to the media is that I completely quit watching television.
I watch all of it, I don't just watch state TV. I flip through, I keep my remote in my hand and flip through. I listen to one of them for a while, ten minutes or so, then ten minutes with another. If everyone were speaking accurately, everyone would talk the same way, in the same style—but each one gives you a particular thing. There is no honest media. There is no honest media. What I think is that the media is all interests.
There is no upstanding media in Egypt. Any upstanding person who tries to get in the field can't get on TV. They don't talk. Like Bassem Youssef, who was the only one I felt was saying anything different from everyone else. Of course, his show was shut down, and it ended.
The one I like the most in the media is Bassem Youssef. But I'm really upset because you couldn't get the truth from him—what the truth is exactly. You couldn't get it unless you worked your mind, unless you maybe knew someone at the source that something happened to. You know what I mean? But no, he never spoke the truth straight up.
Ultimately the media in the whole world is just people's opinions. Like in America, I feel like they let the people working in comedy and that kind of thing—like Jon Stewart and those people—they let them get on TV and say what they think, and yeah, cool, fine. They use them to put a cherry on top so you can eat it. And you enjoy it. You don't feel like it's shit you're eating—not pure shit, anyway. But we are fed shit with a spoon.
Every one is delighted in their studio or shooting in their bedroom—I don't know where they record these things. There are a million shows and every one of them does nothing but sit around saying their opinion—their personal opinion.
I've started to wonder whether television is the Antichrist. If you go watch TV in any country, you'll find that it counts on the people in the country to be gullible. Unfortunately, people do turn out to be gullible. So he can't imagine how the TV convinced them of that? Except that it's the Antichrist, I mean.
It could be that Media Production City is just like الشهر العقاري real estate. The employees go there and everyone knows they work such and such hours to make such and such amount. What they say or don't say is all related to the people they work for. If you want to express your opinion, you won't be able to. If you want to go تدخل تسف عليه on TV, you won't get on unless they know exactly what you want to تسف عليه and they agree to it. They'll connect you with the supervisor, who'll talk to you and tell you that the سف will have limits.
Everyone who talks to make a living is beholden to whoever pays their salary. Whoever pays the salary, owns the tongue. You feel it from some people who used to be your friends; you go up to talk to them and they immediately start to sweat. Because the past is calling them—when they see you, the past calls out to them. It's very rare to see a truly fearless kid, for whom it's not important. Look: be careful not to imagine a very dark world, otherwise it'll darken right in front of you. Always dream. Always keep your dream right in front of you. Even if you can't achieve it, dream.
Everywhere in the world, someone controls the media. In America, for instance, the war in Syria. Obviously America should state its opinion, or go in and do something. Maybe America doesn't want to get involved, so with its media it compels the people to go out in demonstrations against America's involvement in anything like that. So what does America say? "We won't go in because of popular pressure." Because of their media. There's someone controlling it. The media isn't left on its own. It's difficult to find free media… or impossible.
The media always expresses its owner's opinion. Here's a glass of water: I might show it to you from this angle, or show it to you from this angle, or show it to you from the angle that I want you to see. 
In underdeveloped societies—societies with high illiteracy—people seek out opinion leaders. When Egypt's opinion leaders mainly enjoyed wisdom, efficiency, and ability, the Egyptian people would wake up on Friday morning and find Ahmed Bahaa al-Din's article in Al-Ahram, and they knew that Ahmed Bahaa al-Din would tell them how to direct their opinions toward what was right. What happened during the revolution and after is that the media became the opinion leader. أصبح التبادل القبلة ما بينه وما بين الرأي العام, and it became the easiest thing. The Egyptian people did what was easy.
As the saying goes, "Give me a media without a conscience, and I'll give you an ignorant people."
People: it's so easy for them to believe anything. So easy. Like, when you get a video of torture, you find a bunch of other videos coming out that say, "But really… But no… But I mean it isn't possible…" The media is like a game of chess that way.
The media is the worst thing in Egypt. The media will never be fixed; it's the thing that most needs to be cleaned up in this country. It's the media that gets people out of their houses into the street to protest; it's the media that drives people out to the streets to mandate whoever; it's the media that gives people information that isn't even real. Like the idea of terrorists. They say that people are assaulting with weapons and they blame it on the Muslim Brotherhood; they just blame it on them and that's it. Obviously there's no channel on TV that's fair or neutral. 
The media is something awful. The day that we have… the day that we finish with the broadcasters, if it's even correct to call them that, we will have cleaned up Egypt. Egypt will never, ever be cleaned up while they're still around.
Like any business, like any job, the media has its interests… throughout the whole world, sorry to say. The media wants to market itself. What's the news that sells? They report it. They're working in a totally natural way. So, who judges them? The citizen. The youth are supposed to be the most aware, forward-thinking people with ideas and all that. In all of their activities and at all levels, they should be raising the awareness of every citizen. The youth should raise the citizen's awareness to capacity. In the end, I want the citizen to have enough awareness to say, "Those people are a laughingstock, and those people are telling the truth."
The media should pay attention to the people. What do I want to ask? They should ask those questions. But they only ask the questions they want. Honesty is the most important thing in work; everyone should do their work honestly. So, I think. I use my brain to decipher—and honesty or dishonesty will be clear.

 





