Before the January 25th Revolution, the Egyptian Army brought fear and reckoning. In recent years, they were victorious in war—1973—and afterwards, the whole world was afraid of the Egyptian Army. Everyone was afraid of them; even the people themselves would say with pride, "The Egyptian Army."
The Army is made of our sons. Our sons go into the Army; they're trained a bit and then get out. Of course, there are people who stay in the Army as officers, as volunteers, and so on. They are the ones who train our sons when they go in, after they finish their education. That's the Army.
The Egyptian Army is a rotating army. Meaning, no one remains in the Army except its leaders. The Army changes every day. Some people stay for a year, others for two, and others stay for three years.
The Army is just like the rest of the people: some are supporters and some are opposers. Just like the rest of the people.
The Army is my son, that guy's son, that guy's son, and that guy's; my brother and my nephew, and all that. I myself was once in the Egyptian Army. The Army is a group of Egyptian citizens.
The Egyptian Army is woven from Egyptian fabric, in all of its colors—dark-skinned and white, Muslim and Christian. All of them have gone into the military institution. So, I think the military institution that you see here is the backbone of the nation. If it breaks, Egypt will  never stand again. 
No one stands against my country's Army.
The Army, in my opinion: a soldier standing at a checkpoint, holding a heavy machine gun.
The way we saw it before the revolution, after college or when you got to be eighteen years old, you'd go into the Army. In general, youth didn't have a very good image of it. It's a bad image because we go in and we aren't treated well; you might stay in a year without making any money, so you lose a year of your life.
As I saw it, the Army was a good thing. I even hoped that there would be an Army for girls. It was really important, in my eyes. We thought it protected the country, that it was the strongest army in the region—maybe the strongest in the world. 
The term Army changed from before the revolution to after. Before the revolution, I'd hear the word Army when I was walking in the street, and I'd think of being recruited into the Army… one of our friends was going into the Army for one, two, three years. Now, when I hear the word Army, it's politics that comes to mind.
The Army is one thing and SCAF is another. People don't understand that.
Before the revolution, the time I saw the Army the most was when I was working in Sinai for six months. It was on the borders—at the checkpoints on the borders. That was the Army. I never saw the Army otherwise, honestly, except during the October celebrations when they'd have those carnivals on TV. They never had a presence in the street.
Until the revolution happened.
Now the Army is everywhere. My feeling is that the Army controls Egypt. The Army is everywhere… everywhere.
Go walk around anywhere in the country, and you'll find the Army has set up a checkpoint. Go walk into a hospital; you'll find the Army standing there.
They go out into the streets to rule us and to protect us. When criminals come, they arrest them… they arrest them and put them away to protect us.
The Army protected us. There were tanks in the street, even if they pushed people around a bit. There was nothing that people were more afraid of than the Army. When a tank passed, the street would calm down a bit, just by firing a couple of shots in the air—things would calm down. That's it. You'd feel safe, that life still goes on.
Of course, at first I imagined that the Army was supporting the revolution and its success, you know what I mean? We were waiting and waiting, waiting and waiting.
Do you remember when the tanks were in the streets, and people went out to take pictures of themselves with the tanks?
The Army stays up all night for us, in order to protect us. They also defend us in every situation. And the Army—the Army and the people are one hand! The Army and the people are one hand! The Egyptians said, "The Army and the people are one hand!"
They came out to attack us, not to protect us. We thought they were protecting us, but it turned out that really, as they say, they were protecting their own interests. They protected what benefited them. My opinion of the Army has fallen a lot.
Now, the we way we see them is worse, because of course they, like, stole the revolution. The Army moved on the revolution's foundation—not to protect it, but to stop it from getting any larger.
The Army is totally cool, man: the Army as an army, not as its leaders.
As an army, of course we respect the Army. They protected us, otherwise we would have been like Syria. The Army is our own army—it's not Bashar's army, or Hosni Mubarak's army, or anything like that. But the people who lead the Army—its elite—they're the ones who have power in this country.  
There are about seven hundred leaders in the Army, and they are the ones who control the country. Those are the ones we call SCAF.
The Army is upstanding. I wish that the Army would control this entire country. If they controlled the country, they would bring justice… they would be fair and correct. They wouldn't leave a thug in the street. We want it that way! We want this country to be decent so we can live our lives.
The Army fell in my opinion on the day they assaulted Maspero. Those people ran over the people at Maspero and shot at them, and they weren't doing anything. They were Egyptians before anything. I mean, this country needs to remember these things, to keep them in mind forever so they don't forget what the Army did.
Whatever the Army does, people will never be able to say anything but, "They protected us," and, "Our country's Army." That's the kind of talk we hear everywhere, no matter what they do… no matter what. You might even find that these same people remember Maspero, and they know very well what happened. They know a lot of other things, but they must always say, "But the Army protected us; what would we do without them?"
The Army: perhaps the strongest institution in the State. They have secrets we don't know; when they appear, we are shocked. They turn out to be even more powerful than we imagined. That's the deep state, and it's more powerful than the State itself.
And then came June 30th, all of which happened in the interests of the Army, and they are the ones who put it together. I'm completely against it. The Army went out and killed people. I went out to a number of protests against the Army and I saw the assaults on us: pellets passing under our feet.
The Army is supposed to protect us, not assault us. The Army should stand behind me, not assault me; they shouldn't mess up the mosques and assault girls. They shouldn't arrest girls. Where is their machismo when they put their hands on girls, assault them, arrest them, and do stuff to them? How is that possible?! Is that our Army?
There are of course really good people in the Army, who have nothing to do with anything. There's pressure on them and if they refuse to go out against the protests and assault them, they are put on very serious military trials.
Our Army is something that we cherish, and there are many honorable people who have rejected what is happening now. A lot of them don't want the Army to govern and think that it should basically stay away from power.
But there are a lot of corrupt people in the Army.
In my opinion, the Army has a responsibility to protect the country from any danger from abroad. But things inside the country should have a special authority, which is the Interior Ministry. Except as you see these days, because there are terrorists and people harming the country and those other things, the Army has taken on internal affairs—in order to protect the country, I mean.
The Army is the only organized thing in this country right now—the only connected and cohesive thing. It's the only institution that we've created and that we, like, respect, even if I hear about some things—that they've taken over some of the markets, that there are rich people in the Army and whatever else, stuff like that. But in general, the Army belongs to Egypt and they love Egypt, you know what I mean? And if they're being used in some civilian work, they're taking Egypt to a good place. If they're in charge of a road, they fix it; if they build factories and bakeries or whatever, they take the country to a good place. Why? Because they have the discipline and the knowledge; they serve the country well.
What is the relationship of the Army to financial investment? What allows the Army to have factories for macaroni and cooking oil? Why do they build roads and bridges? Why do they build hotels and resorts? That's not the Army's job! The job of a recruit is to be trained as a warrior. At least, that's how I understand it.
Now, if anything is broken, the Army is the one who does it. Like if it's broken, they fix it. When a bridge falls, they go rebuild it. When a road is ruined, they fix it. How do they do that? From their own budget! And anyone who knows the arms agreements, who knows the equipment agreements, the parts and all of that… it's with money, and the Army has its own budget. They fix what the people destroy, because that is their role.
But the Army is weak, because it is responsible both inside the country and abroad. And, there are internal divisions, so I feel like the terrorism that is happening now is not just the Brotherhood. There are organizations coming in and the fronts are open—unprotected.
Our Army fought the wars in 1973 and 1968, and these people are talking and cursing the Army. Sorry to say, but you were just sitting at home, laying around in bed, while the Army was fighting to free your lands, so that you could hold your head high. When you travel to a European country or an Arab country, you hold your head high. All of our lives, our Army has stood behind Egypt. Our Army is Egypt. We stand behind this majestic institution, this respectable institution, this institution whose people stood for months and years to free their country. Sorry, but this is one of the most important institutions in Egypt, and we must salute it. "The greatest soldiers on Earth." The greatest soldiers on Earth.
It's really unfortunate, but Egyptians deal with the Army as though it is something sacred. They worship it in a way… I mean, I think it's sick.
"The greatest soldiers on Earth," is a saying of the Prophet; it's not in the Qur'an. What's more, it's a saying that's weakly reported. "The greatest soldiers on Earth" refers to every individual in the society… every individual, not just the Army—no.
Egypt's Army is like every Egyptian apparatus that was touched by corruption and fragility during the rule of Hosni Mubarak. Why don't you want to hold the Army accountable? We don't have any organization or institution in Egypt that is not accountable. They have to be held accountable; they have to account for the funds that they spend and the funds that they receive.
The Army has no interest. Watch out! The Army stayed the same—they haven't gotten one pound more or one pound less. Take note! The Army is something like they take advantage and that's it. They take the beaches, they take the good places to live and build things for themselves there—they have all the advantages in the world. There's a bit of Siwa that they've taken; everything everywhere belongs to them. Not for the people… they'll never do anything good except for themselves.
The Army is the possessor of the real revolution—the revolution of 1952, that was against… in which we stood against colonialism. It's their right to take the good positions in this country. It's their right to be treated in the best hospitals. It's their right to be put in good places, good jobs and sensitive jobs. Sorry to tell you, but that is their right!
This is the Army's problem: they've gotten more into politics than necessary. The Army is in all the ministries; all of the governors are in the Army. Look at the elections: they were monitored by the Army, which has no business in the elections as long as they are running a candidate. I say, we've tried thirty years of the Army's military rule, so I think they should get totally away from politics and work, stay in their place on the borders, and stay away from the factories! They don't have any business in macaroni or tomatoes, in cookies and cakes. What are you doing with factories? Let the people work!
The only solution now is that the Army leaves the place.
I wish the Army would devote themselves to developing defensive strategies, to developing defensive forces, and to developing their tactics, instead of importing from America, Russia, and China. Instead of producing macaroni and other essentials in their factories, they should go back to military production. Stop making stoves, and start making tanks.