Before the revolution, when my brother went into the Army, he said to me, "Whenever one of does something wrong, they put us on trial." — I asked, "A normal trial?" — He said, "No. There are military trials."
After the revolution, I found out that we were talking about military trials for civilians, so I went to look it up. I discovered that in a state of war, civilians are presented in military trials. It was something new for me. The first time I heard that we used military trials for civilians was after the revolution.
But it's not something that appeared suddenly. No—it's been around since the start. We heard about military trials a lot before the revolution, and no one opened their mouths to speak or say what was happening. No one could speak up; everyone stayed silent.
Military trials are one of the terrible things that came after the revolution, in that a regular civilian person would be tried in a military trial. After the revolution, there was supposed to freedom and impartiality and that sort of thing, but it was just the opposite. Instead of putting people on trial in front of a regular civilian judge, just because the ruling power was the military, you would be put on military trial.
People made the revolution more or less to get a few rights and freedom—to continue the people's struggle. One of the things that happened after that was the transformation of people's civilian trials into military trials; they canceled their right to stand before a regular judge with regular law, to be able to plead and to be able to receive degrees of litigation. They were transformed into military trials. It became something regular and normal, and what wasn't normal was a regular civilian trial.
In my mind—and I know it's a cliche—but seriously, what comes to me with the word "No" is: "No to military trials."
How can I be a civilian put on a military trial?
This is our problem as Egyptians: we want freedoms without obligations. Anyone who is going to give themselves the right to attack a military institution, must… they must have action taken against them, because there's a difference between military institutions and regular institutions.
We're not in a military state; we're in a civilian state. In fact, we aren't in the Army, we didn't steal and we aren't stealing from the Army, we aren't fighting the Army and our whole lives are not the Army. So, we are against military trials for civilians.
There's no way that a regular, free civilian person can be put on military trial. Just because you're shackled by something called a military trial, doesn't mean you should force it on civilians. That's a restriction on you as a military person. You chose to be a soldier, so you must bear the consequence of your choice: that your judge will be a military judge. But it's not my responsibility as a civilian person to stand on military trial. 
Like, we'd chant against SCAF, because there were corrupt leaders in SCAF. We were put on military trials, and the people who killed us—who took billions—were put on civilian trials!
Mubarak should not have been put on civilian trial, because he was a military man.
As soon as they were taken out of power, Mubarak and his entire former regime should have been put on military trial.
Obviously, we know that people who go into military prisons either come out insane, don't come out at all, or die inside. A lot of our colleagues went to military prisons, and there are some of them whom we don't know about until now—we don't know anything about them.
Now, its a huge phenomenon in El-Sisi's time; everyone is taken to trial and they are put on mass trials.
Military trials have to end.
Well, it's all the same thing. No difference. A military trial is like any trial—like a civilian trial. It's all the same shit.



