Mohamed Mahmoud is a street downtown, where a whole lot of assaults happened. It was closed for a long time. It had graffiti; people went there to do graffiti. 
Before the revolution, Mohamed Mahmoud was the name of a street, and the name of an old Minister of the Interior. It became the name of a battle… actually, a lot of battles.
There was a sit-in for those who were injured in the revolution. We were talking about the rights of people who were injured in the revolution that had not yet been fulfilled. Needless to say, the Mohamed Mahmoud incidents happened because of the sit-in.
Mohamed Mahmoud: November 18, 2011. On Friday, Hazem Abu Ismail said, "I'll be the first to sit-in in the Square, even if I do it alone." He was the first one to leave. He left right after Isha prayer that night. He said, "No, we've got to go; we have a lot of Fridays to come." Just a brief speech, and they left. The families of the injured sat-in at the Mogamma. At seven in the morning, the kids called me, "Hurry! The sit-in is being cleared."
First of all, the police started it with violence against us in Mohamed Mahmoud, when they came to clear the sit-in for the injured of the revolution at the Mogamma. We went out in sympathy with the injured of the revolution, and we stood in Mohamed Mahmoud. We saw armored cars coming out of Mohamed Mahmoud Street. There were swords behind them… thugs from Abdeen, carrying swords.
At three o'clock, I was in Tahrir Square… that was on Saturday, November 19th. The first thing I saw was a paddy wagon passing by, and the kids threw a Molotov. It caught on fire, and I took a picture. That was the start of the true Mohamed Mahmoud. The clashes in Mohamed Mahmoud lasted for a week.
Everything gets mixed up in my head. For me, it was one period of the revolution… I mean, whenever I talk about it, I say, "The days of Mohamed Mahmoud." For me, that was the time in which I found out about violence. I mean, that's when I really discovered the viciousness of the regime against us… against the people. 
There was gas; many types of gas.
There were some statistics done that said that there were more than one hundred thousand gas canisters fired in Mohamed Mahmoud.
The soldiers would go on top of the American University, throwing all kinds of stones: marble, ceramic, granite. We were hit by all kinds of strange rocks from their direction. At night, there was live gunfire. You'd hear the sound of a shot… tch boom!… and someone would fall. During the day, more people were killed by pellets. 
They shot at us with all kinds of weapons: live gunfire, pellets, those rubber bullets. They were shooting us in Mohamed Mahmoud as though we were dogs.
We had weapons, but not like the weapons they had. You've got that kind of a gun that's handmade, and they've got all kinds of weapons. The Army had them, and they assaulted with them. When the police got tired, they'd call for a cease-fire, so they could alternate their officers… so they could get other officers, I mean.
There was no mercy.
What we saw in Mohamed Mahmoud was obviously something no one can describe, because it was like nothing they've ever seen… or maybe not nothing they've ever seen, we'd seen it in 2005 with Kefaya and that stuff… but what we saw in Mohamed Mahmoud was seven days of assault, insults, and humiliation, people lying on the sidewalks and people dying. Clearly, the police had no mercy. It was all random shooting, and you had no idea where it was coming from. There were shots coming continuously for seven days from the police—no cease-fire, no conversation. There was so much… so much that it's hard for you to remember anything. 
A lot of people were taken, and we still don't know anything about them. We basically don't know where they went.
I was arrested in Mohamed Mahmoud, and charged with overthrowing the regime, sedition against public institutions, and throwing stones at the Armed Forces. They took me through protocol and brought me to the Ministry of the Interior, where I was kept for three days. I was beaten and humiliated; they laid us down on our faces and handcuffed us from behind. Then, they took us to the Abdeen precinct. We got خدنا العلقة there in the Abdeen precinct, and we stayed there for two days. Throughout all of that, I wasn't presented to the prosecutor. Then they took me to Tora for interrogation. I went into the room inside where I was also beaten, humiliated, and وشلاليت. We were a group and we were being beaten. We kept saying to them, "Bread, freedom, social justice." I also went to Tora after and stayed for four days, and then they presented me to the Abdeen prosecutor. I got four days after fifteen days of interrogation, all of it beatings and no… no mercy. Inside, in the heart of the prison, there was no mercy. They made us sleep on bare tile, obviously with no blankets. "You're thugs; you want to set fire to the Ministry of the Interior." — I started saying to them, "We… We're going out to make all of our demands peacefully."
We saw terrible violence from the police.
We saw death with our own eyes.
The media said that forty-four people died. No—the truth is, it was one thousand and four. One thousand and four, not forty-four.
A lot of people died, and at the same time, with all the shit we experienced in Mohamed Mahmoud—all the gas and death and whatever else—still when you look back on it now, there's a nostalgia for a time when we were still really standing up.
I don't know… it's like those days were both good and bad at the same time. Like, I remember that we all stood up and made… we made a human wall so that the air ambulances—the motorcycles—could pass through, and I held the hands of people I didn't know. I think it brings us back to the word "the people." Those were the days that I really feel that I… that I was one of millions.
People were really with us; in that time, they were really, really, really, really, really, really with us.
At the time, the Brotherhood said, "A few hired thugs; a few lowlifes." They were really busy with the elections.
The Parliamentary elections were right after the days of Mohamed Mahmoud. Of course, all the revolutionary parties and movements, and all the revolutionary youth refused to participate in anything like that. As long as there was blood being spilled in the streets, we were not willing to participate. 
The Brotherhood came out against us and said, "Thugs, funded from abroad, with foreign agendas." They went on at the time, chanting for SCAF—they were chanting in the Square: "Oh Field Marshall, oh Field Marshall, you are the prince." That was among the incidents that revealed to us who the Brotherhood really were. When they sold us out to get a seat in the Parliament… they went to the Parliament and made a security barrier around it and the Shura Council, so that the youth couldn't even think about going there.
The Brotherhood calls Rabaa a symbol of resistance. Yeah, well that's because they didn't go to Mohamed Mahmoud. If you haven't gone to Mohamed Mahmoud, you don't know… you don't know what resistance really is.
Mohamed Mahmoud is… it's resistance.
Mohamed Mahmoud really started the true revolution. It was a battle of resistance. We resisted in Mohamed Mahmoud, as much as we could, until SCAF left… until they really left power, left their sole power over the regime. Of course, only after the people put pressure on them.

