We heard about the Molotov before the January 25th Revolution. We heard nothing more than that it was a bottle filled with a bit of gas or kerosene. When we heard about it being used in a brawl, we liked to think that we'd use something like that.
Before the revolution, Molotovs were generally used in popular neighborhoods; they'd use them in fights. Like, in big fights… youth would use them. They'd fill bottles with gas and throw them at each other, set things on fire, and break things.
Before the revolution, I didn't really hear the word Molotov, except from the Ultras and stuff—the people who really went out to clashes. After the revolution, it became something that happened every day. We learned how to make Molotovs; it was part of our routine.
The revolutionaries, or the protesters, couldn't find anything to defend themselves against gunshots, pellets, and gas canisters, except for the Molotov. But their point wasn't to kill or murder anyone. It was just to set an armored car on fire, to set fire to the vehicles that were killing us—a fire engine, whatever it was that was used against us. It was among the weapons that the revolutionaries used to defend themselves.
There were some protesters who used Molotovs, especially on the Day of Rage. Basically half of the Day of Rage was Molotovs—the day that they set all the precincts in Egypt on fire.
At the time of Mohamed Mahmoud, we went around trying to convince people that our car was stuck on the Desert Road and we needed gas. We went to a gas station in Zamalek. We looked all beaten up and disgusting, so it was completely obvious that we were coming to get Molotovs. This guy was nice; he laughed and gave us gas. We went to the guy on Ahmed Orabi Street in Mohandiseen looking for a crate of empty Pepsi bottles. We said to him, "Can we buy this?" — He said, "Why?" — We said, "We want to make Molotovs." — He kept fighting and saying, "No," and "That's impossible," and stuff. — So we kept trying to convince him. We played the role of the victim. "Ok then, if we die, it'll be on your shoulders." He gave them to us in the end, and we stole a car cover to make fuses, and we got glycerine from the pharmacy for the TNT, so that it wasn't just a Molotov but would make a more powerful explosion. And oil; oil was really easy, so that the texture would stick, not just light on fire.
But there were other days that Molotovs were planted amongst the protesters. That's what the police always do, basically; they plant amongst them a few thug kids who get paid a few bucks, who go and throw a few fuses—I mean, they throw Molotovs. Of course, in the moment it looks like the protesters are doing it—that they're destructive and set things on fire.
Mostly now, I haven't seen them except with the Brotherhood, unfortunately. Mostly, they are the ones who use that type of weapon.
Molotov: it's a weapon. A weapon. A weapon against the weapons of the government and the ruler. I hate the word Molotov, because if you find more than one weapon in the State, the State has completely collapsed, and the State is completely ruined. Like, opinions are random—random in that they have no principles, no foundation… then there is chaos. Chaos in everything, so you live in chaos.
As I see it, those who use Molotovs use them to destroy, and anyone who uses a Molotov has to be punished and has to be dealt with, because no opinion should be expressed by force—your opinion should be expressed with your tongue. That's what's going to get across; what's expressed by force will never get across. I mean, your voice will be heard so long as you are peaceful, God willing, but so long as you're destructive and stuff, you will be called a thug and everything.
Maybe a Molotov is not something peaceful. But the idea of being peaceful or not is in the power that you use. If you're defending yourself and your being, you can't be held accountable. If you run away, you're running away from your position, and if you run away, they'll do the same thing every time. So, in spite of yourself, you try to defend yourself, especially since you're not throwing a Molotov in order to kill or murder anyone. You throw it so that you can defend yourself or fend off an attack.
That's not even Egyptian or… I won't call it Egyptian; I won't call it Muslim or Christian. That's not even called human. They want destruction. That's not human.
People keep using it as though it were something atrocious: "Oh man, they're using Molotovs!" But in reality, it's just something that makes a little fire. It's a primitive means of attack, in and of itself.
It's a really primitive thing, but we were still surprised after the revolution that the whole thing spread with such intensity. It spread to the point that it's become something normal these days. But now machine guns are used, firearms, cold weapons… all of those weapons have become available now, unfortunately.


