I understand the word, but I don't understand it.
I don't think anyone really understands what national dialogue is, before or after the revolution. No understands what national dialogue is, and no one understands a citizens' duties.
It's a word that Hosni Mubarak came up with one time when there was a lot of talk about sectarian conflict; the idea of the citizen's duty entered into it.
It's something that was pronounced after every problem that happened between Muslims and Christians—after any fight where people died, they'd say, "National unity! Let's have a national dialogue." They'd get someone from Al-Azhar and someone from the Church; they'd kiss each other's cheeks and say, "Case closed," meaning that the national dialogue was nice and everything was cool.
A national dialogue is nothing more than a meeting between important people.
In general, it's a word that prompted ridicule by most Egyptians. As soon as they heard the word, they'd start laughing.  There was a really nice film with Adel Imam called "Hassan wa Marqas [Hassan and the Dance Club]." In the film, he played the role of a Christian who was made to convert to Islam by security become of some issues; there was another guy who was Muslim who was made to convert to Christianity, للي قعدوا يتريقوا على الموضوع so the two of them are the ones that discussed the matter.
During the eighteen days, Omar Suleiman extended an invitation for a national dialogue between the different political factions, in order to calm things down, I mean… so that the youth would go home and Mubarak would stay on. Among the people who went were the Muslim Brothers. The Brotherhood has always liked deals and national dialogues, since the time of the King. Every time some issue came up, they'd go sit with the King. In the days of Abdel Nasser, they'd go have a national dialogue, until Gamal Abdel Nasser turned on them and put them in prison. Then, they had a national dialogue with Sadat. It was something the revolutionaries wouldn't participate in, because they knew it was all just talk. We don't just want talk; we want real things to happen on the ground.
Since the eighteen days, and until now, the word national dialogue refers to the political attempts to solve a difference that is mainly in the interest of those in power. Most of the time, those in power are the ones who host it. People always بتتريق عليهم make fun of it, like, regardless of who hosts it—whether it's Mubarak or SCAF or the Muslim Brotherhood.
After June 30th, national dialogue refers to the attempts to reintegrate the Brotherhood into political life again… and they are rejected. Anyone who says, "Let's have a national dialogue in order to get the Brotherhood back into politics," is an agent and a traitor… in the opinion of most of the public, I mean.
Honestly, I don't know if we understand what a national dialogue it. I don't think that up till now I've ever been in a discussion that would indicate that I'd been in a national dialogue with anyone. 
Come, let's divide the word into two. Dialogue: it means people who are prepared to listen to the other party. When I add to it the word 'national,' it means that you and I are discussing points that are relevant to our country, because from start to finish we both want to live in a better country. Unfortunately, the majority of people in the political arena now don't listen to others, and don't love this country.
Like, we fundamentally need to know that our differences don't make us enemies. Just because we are in dialogue, doesn't mean we have to come out of it in agreement. I have to accept that you are different… that you have a different opinion. I don't think we've gotten to the point yet that we have this kind of acceptance. I sit and have a dialogue with you for only one reason: so that you'll come join me on my side. But I'm not ready to sit on my side and discuss my points, to have you sit on your side and discuss your points, and to have each one of us express their opinion without either one of us needing the other to leave their place. We haven't gotten there yet. 


