When I was born, there were no neighborhood watches. But I heard about them, like in the days of the Tripartite Aggression in Suez—there were neighborhood watches.
We didn't care about neighborhood watches before the revolution, but we needed them during the revolution, when people escaped from prison after security fled. They played a very important role in the revolution; I mean, they had a tangible effect.
Neighborhood watches appeared precisely on January 29th, when they said prisoners escaped and that they were going to start attacking neighborhoods and homes and stuff. So people went out and formed neighborhood watches. Neighborhood watches are people from the regular public going out and standing together to save themselves from any danger that comes to them—to protect their streets and homes and neighborhoods and stuff like that.
The point of a neighborhood watch was to search people passing through the neighborhood, so no strangers could come in.
So if any people come to your street, they find a collective sitting there—three or four of them—"Yes, we know them!" and they pass. — "Yeah, is that guy with you?"
I'm one of those people who didn't know a lot of people in my own neighborhood. People were nice; they had an attitude of getting to know each other. We stood in the neighborhood watch with people of the neighborhood and stuff; we really took care of each other.
Everyone went out with a stick or a broom, واللي ساحب ساطور. Like, I loved to sit with them. The old women would send us kushari, a round of tea and cold drinks. It was a beautiful thing. You felt like there was a togetherness, like there was long ago.
Everyone in the neighborhood watches did a lot of nice things for us. They protected each other. At the time, you felt like there were people who cared about you.
I never imagined that it could happen—first of all, that people were worried to the point that they would go out and stand there. And, I never imagined that people would actually get together and do something together!
Thank God it happened that I got to see something like that in my life. Everyone went out to take on the responsibility of the police, and they did it for themselves. I mean, it was a beautiful thing, and it was the most beautiful thing in that you feel like it will only ever happen once in your life.
There were people where we live… I mean next to us… who would be standing in the street.  They'd search any car or anything that passed by. They'd see if they had anything with them… if they were going to kill anyone or not.
It didn't have to be people who would attack and that kind of thing. No, no… they might make a neighborhood watch for themselves for anything that might happen in the neighborhood.
I remember something that happened where we live. A motorcycle was passing by with a machine gun, but they were only shooting blanks. It was kind of a funny situation. In the street behind us, a woman was screaming, "Oh my God! Oh my God!" — So everyone ran and what did we do… we made like special forces: "You here! You here! You go look upstairs! Go! Go! Go!" — We went up and stuff. We knocked on the door. "What's going on in there?" — The guy came and said, "It's none of your business!" — "What's going on, sir?" — "It's none of your business!" — We went and found the lady coming out, "Save me! My husband is beating me!"
The neighborhood watches were the best thing in the world. I swear to God, the police themselves couldn't do what the neighborhood watches did.
There was someone who took over the booth that the police sit in—that plastic booth—he took it over, and pretended he was an officer. He sat inside the booth, really relaxed, holding a cigarette in his hand and pretending to be an officer.
The neighborhood watches were the best thing that happened in the revolution. That, and the fact that Daylight Savings Time came back after it was cancelled. 
How romantic it all was! Self-management and "Yeah!" and whatever else… And then, the neighborhood watches became terrifying.
I saw some very respectful neighborhood watches, like the neighborhood watches we made in Tahrir Square to search you when you came in. You might be carrying a razor or something to hurt someone inside. I'm with them, but I'm not with other neighborhood watches I've seen in my life. I'm not with the idea that when you go out in a neighborhood watch, you carry a weapon. There is something called a government that protects us; anyway, it's supposed to. I'm supposed to give you up to them and let them deal with you—they'll assault you, they'll kill you. They're protecting me. But you, as an Egyptian like me—you can't assault me.
Of course, there were some respectful people who were holding, like, a سنج or a stick, but they didn't use it—they didn't assault anyone. But there were people assaulting with swords. I saw people where I live who were using weapons. I mean, I might be someone going out, and they might say I'm a thug and assault me. They might kill me, and I'm not a thug—I'm just going out for a walk.
Once I was in Dokki, riding a microbus. People came upon us holding guns and stuff, and the whole microbus was women and stuff. They wanted us to get out of the microbus. They said, "Neighborhood watch." — So I replied to them, "If you were really a neighborhood watch, you wouldn't want us to get out. You'd protect us, and let us go home." — So they said, "No, since we're a neighborhood watch we have to search you before you go on." — They were dragging the women and searching them, that kind of thing. They weren't searching us in order to protect us; they were searching us in order to take what we had.
There was someone who died in a neighborhood watch in Faisal. His name was Islam. Islam was standing with a neighborhood watch and they stopped a motorcycle. The guy on the motorcycle pulled out a machine gun—bratatat! A number of them fell, injured, and Islam died. He was among the martyrs of the neighborhood watch.
I think, at this time, if neighborhood watches have a role on the ground, it will be a huge problem. That's it—the police and the Army are the only ones who have a role in protecting the country, so I don't need someone like me to take charge of me, even if they are just stopping me to ask, "Where are you going?" No, now I'm in the time of freedom. Security has come back in full, armed force, and that's it. It is within my rights as a citizen for security to stop me and talk to me with honor and respect. But for someone like me in the street to do that—I don't think this it the time that calls for it.

