Of course, Nesto cheese has been in Egypt for a long time. La Vache Qui Rit and that sort of stuff—it's a type of French cheese that has been in Egypt for a long time.
As I see it, Nesto cheese was a normal thing to eat before the revolution. It was something you'd buy in the supermarket and nothing more. After the revolution, the term was used specifically in the events at Itihadiya, by one of the members of the Muslim Brotherhood. There was a sit-in—the revolutionaries had a sit-in against the Muslim Brotherhood, against President Morsi. So they came and cleared the sit-in, and they found a package of Nesto cheese that the revolutionaries had, just to eat, and they said, "Nesto cheese, you dirtbags!"
They said Nesto cheese like it was a curse.
God only knows what they meant by, "Nesto cheese, you dirtbags!" Did they mean that we were rich maybe, because we buy Nesto cheese for six pounds a package? Or maybe since they get meat and rice, and whatever other meals they get, when we eat Nesto cheese we are dirtbags? God knows what they meant.
When we did our sit-in at the Ministry of Ministers, people said that we were getting funds from abroad, that we were getting paid in dollars from America, and that we were getting meals from KFC. But I swear to God the most we ate was Nesto cheese, and only when we happened upon it fortuitously.
"Nesto cheese, you dirtbags!"
In Tahrir, around the time of January 25th, 2011, I didn't have anything to eat. I woke up in the morning, and I'd lost my money. I couldn't sleep, it was rainy, wet and cold—really cold. So I woke up, and I woke up the guy next to me—no, he was already awake, to be precise in my testimony—and he gave me a loaf of bread. It was a simple loaf, not nice to eat; I swear it was like a piece of dough, very moist. But it was alright. Of course you know that we are ignored and the wheel of production turns nicely. Everything is going great for us, it's just a piece of cake. Here, we throw bread in the dust, and they وهما بيعملوه مبيرموش العيش في الردة. Anyway, he gave me a simple loaf of bread and a piece of Nesto cheese, and I ate it. I'd also lost my cell phone, but it was cool.
"Nesto cheese, you dirtbags!"
The guy who said that is evidence of the stupid humans that the Brotherhood take as members. He's a really good example. 
That someone thinks that people who eat Nesto cheese are infidels, that they're people from outside of this society, all of that stuff… It really shows you what an intellectual and cultural wasteland we live in here in Egypt. On top of that, it lets you know how much more we would have seen if the Muslim Brotherhood had stayed in power.
It's the same type of demagoguery that's been practiced for a looong time, like that time when they said, "They're secular," and didn't know what secular meant, just that this person is secular. The concept of liberalism—"They're a liberal," and that's it. Someone communist—"Infidel." It's demagoguery and distorting words—playing with them to ruin a lot of things and unfortunately, to turn people to a kind of false awareness.
Actually, the word Nesto cheese makes my stomach turn. It's ok, I just call it La Vache Qui Rit, even if that's not the brand. I don't think I've even said the word Nesto cheese ever in my life, except for, "Nesto Cheese, you dirtbags!"
The truth is that collective memory is like that. You go to the grocer for instance, and you say to him, "I'd like two packages of Nesto cheese, you dirtbags!"

