One hand got said a lot... a whole lot.
The contrast between the phrase at the beginning of the revolution and at the end: it’s an enormous difference.
Before the revolution, one hand meant Muslims and Christians.
We used to hear it in the days of the conflict between Muslims and Christians in Egypt. Of course, they used a boilerplate solution: the Azhar Sheikh, the Pope, and whoever else would come and sit together. Then, they’d appear in the media and at the end of the whole thing they’d say to you, “We, we are Muslim and Christian together. We are one hand.”
One hand is a term that started out from the idea that as different people, each on their own course with a leader or a party or a movement, we would say, “One hand,” to bring everybody together in one entity, in one body.
In Tahrir Square we were all present—Muslim, Christian, Brotherhood, Salafi, liberal, secular… We were all in Tahrir Square, one hand.
"One hand," was spoken in Tahrir Square when the Brotherhood came out on the 28th. People were against their coming out, since they first sat around cursing us. When they came out and participated on the 28th, there was tension in conversations here and there. So people said, “One hand.” They kept saying, “One hand! One hand!” and they raised the volume on the speakers throughout the whole Square. And people put all their problems to the side and were persuaded by the word: one hand.
It even happened here in Suez... there was a protest on one of the eighteen days. A second group came out—a group of Egyptians, as we are too—in support of Hosni Mubarak, and people saw them. They stood face-to-face, and there would have been a big problem if there weren’t a kind of creativity: people started playing a popular song for Suez. So, of course, the other people and the group that was part of the revolution, altogether, everything calmed down. One hand served as the same kind of thing. When there’s “One hand! One hand!” everything calms down. Egyptians of course are very creative so they’re sort of like, “Hey, everybody!” and the thing that makes the atmosphere nicer: “One hand! One hand!”
At the beginning, it was something people said because they didn’t want everything to be against them: they didn’t want the police, the Army, the thugs, and the felool, people with money, people without money, and people who stayed at home, and the... I mean, not to have everybody against them. No.
Of course we should have something: the Army, at least.
What was said of course was, “The Army and the people are one hand.” And when SCAF came, it was said: “The Army and the people are one hand.”
The one hand was on January 25 and it was... it was in the second stage, in the presidential elections, and in the Parliamentary elections (not the Shura Council). After that we went back and split up.
The revolution succeeded and we took down Mubarak. After that, we split up again. Every on their own became a movement or a party, or started supporting an individual or an entity. So we split up again, and the word one hand stopped existing.
I feel like one hand started to become a hundred hands, a million hands. Ninety-five million hands.
A group of us does something and it’s all, “One hand.” There’s beginning to be lots and lots of one hands.
In a time when there are lies, hypocrisy, greed, and I don’t know what else, terms might change. This term definitely changed. After the Mohamed Mahmoud incidents and those incidents, after the Brotherhood ascended and reached the Parliament, that kind of thing... when the Parliament was fixed, what did they start doing? They wanted to go back to the Squares.
The Muslim Brotherhood would have a march, so the youth of the revolution would have a different march. You’d look and you’d see the Brothers saying, “One hand!”—and they’d really stretch out the word: “One haaand!”—they’d say it just like that. Of course, the one hand in that context isn’t the one hand that we know. In that context, the term changed into one hand in a purely functional sense. It’s not reassuring. It’s not the one that brings us together. More than that: the one who says it doesn’t believe in what they're saying, and the one who sees and hears it doesn’t believe in it either. So the term was emptied of its content, and got used.
After that, one hand came at a time when politics was beginning to be masked in silence— the Muslim Brotherhood's silence. Specifically, at the beginning of the tension between the revolutionaries and the Brotherhood, they would say, “No, no, everybody one hand!” They used one hand to silence people from anything controversial that they were talking about.
Of course when a person starts to differentiate between two groups of revolutionaries, it leaves them in a space where they’re like: which one of the two is right? They end up not standing with anyone at all. They insist on standing alone, not in solidarity with one another.
Of course, now we are in dire need of one hand. One wishes that our society would go back to being one hand again, like before.
And why can’t we all be one hand? To be nothing: not to be a Muslim Brother, not Muslim, or Christian, or liberal, or secular, or... Just all of us, “I am Egyptian.” We all live in one country and we... we... we... we enjoy all the possibilities of the state. Each of us, like the other... without discrimination, perhaps.
It’s impossible. No one gets together and becomes one hand, except if there’s a shared interest. We don’t have that here: everyone, each group, has their own particular interests. There’s not even an admission of difference. If there’s no admission of differences, there won’t be a thing called one hand.
Unfortunately, Egyptians understand one hand wrong. They understand that we must all say the same thing, and if you say something different, then you're against us—you’re an agent and a traitor, and your heart isn’t with the country. You hate Egypt and you hate the Egyptians! That’s wrong. That is not right. Because of that, as long as Egyptians believe in that as the concept, they will never be one hand. Because that concept breeds hate; it doesn’t breed love.
The one hand that I imagine, that I dream of, is that the Egyptian people would be one heart: meaning that we love each other, and we respect each other. Because variety in opinion, variety in thought, and variety in affiliations is really necessary. We must recognize and acknowledge that in our society. And when we are convinced of an opinion that one of us came up with, we don’t feel our ego rising. We recognize a good and right idea, whether it comes out of a little kid or an old person, from a farmer or a worker, a woman or a Christian, a Muslim or Baha’i... from whomever. We recognize it and we work. We work on it.
