Paddy wagon: that truck, the police truck that takes prisoners from the precinct to prison.
All I have to say about it is that it's not even a truck… sorry, but it's not even a truck. It doesn't have lights or seats or a toilet or anything. They just chain everyone together and put them on the floor, and then take them to the prison where they're dealy with. What's more, they take the prisoners from Sallum to Cairo or to Alexandria, and they keep them inside the truck for the whole the six or eight hours. 
There's no toilet inside the truck, even though the soldiers use it as well. It's wrong that they use the paddy wagon for soldiers. If they're on a mission and the trucks have a problem, they use the same one for the soldiers as they do for prisoners, and the soldiers get shut inside, same as the prisoners. I can't believe they lock the door on them from the outside the same way they do for the prisoners!
It's sort of like a sardine can. Of course, when the truck comes and goes or something, we get together and bang on its sides. Obviously, when it's sunny, it's hot as hell inside. They lock you inside it, you can't move or do anything, you can't go to the bathroom or see your family, you can't say hi to your friends or anything.
The officer sits in the paddy wagon eating nuts and crossing his legs right in front of you, smoking cigarettes, munching and spitting on you.
A lot of absolutely inhumane and immoral things happen inside the paddy wagon, things we only ever see in movies. Beatings, humiliation, profanities… they might even throw a gas bomb inside so you can all inhale it together. 
You're trapped inside the paddy wagon with forty other people, and they go in and beat you senseless. In spite of yourself, you try to protect yourself while you're being beaten and the guy next to you gets beaten. You might even hit him yourself because you're trying to stop yourself from being beaten.
For girls, the paddy wagon is a harassment chamber. You really can call it a harassment chamber. The soldiers go in. The girls are chained up and blindfolded, so the soldiers do whatever they want.
Once there was a gas bomb thrown into a paddy wagon, and everyone died inside… I mean, they suffocated. And the soldiers were watching. Most of them were standing there and watching them die… just watching them die.
I hope no one ever has to ride the paddy wagon.