Of course, one hears this word blood a lot; it's just some evidence of barbaric human thinking.
I generally don't like blood. Like, I don't like the look of blood at all. Even if it's a bird, or an animal—I don't like it. My mother used to get pigeons—a pigeon or a chicken—and do it at home. She and my father would hold the pigeon like this and say, "Come and stand next to us or in front of us when we… so that you, like, get used to it." — I'd say, "I don't want to get used to it! I don't want to do it."
During the revolution and after, there was a lot of blood. I started to see not only the blood of animals or… No, I'd see humans. I'd see it right in front of my eyes. I mean… it was a different reality. Blood is dreadful before and after the revolution. Before the revolution, people hated blood just because it represented murder, injury… like something undesirable. It increased after the revolution, because there was more killing, there were more injuries, and there was more torture.
Before the revolution, blood was spilled in ways like the boats that sank—the youth who couldn't find any way to live in their country and wanted to travel to a European country or something, Italy or somewhere, so they'd take the death boats and die in the sea. Or poor infrastructure, road accidents, no healthcare… Egyptian blood was spilled that way. Now, it's the shotgun… they demand their freedom and find a shotgun in their face, and they're killed.
The first time I was affected by the word blood—and I feel like I've been affected by it—was the day one of my friends died in front of me. I was with him and he died. A lot of friends… a lot of friends died.
When you see someone killed in front of you, you appreciate the sanctity of blood. Like in Mohamed Mahmoud; six or seven died under Safir Travel. There's a pink sign, and people were crushed under it. I mean, there were people coming out of that alley, from the hospital—the exit of the hospital in the Square that's by the mosque—and two or three soldiers stood in front of the exit. Those youth stopped in fear, so they fell over each other, and there were a lot of people on top of each other. We were trying to get them out in any way we could. Who could get out got out, and we tried to pull out the people underneath. We pulled out who we could, and there was like, for example, this one guy from Fayoum that we were pulling, but he said, "My leg is going to break." There were a lot of people like that. So I left him, and pulled someone else. He died.
Over three years, a lot of people died in a lot of places. All of those people's blood, the blood of any person just crossing the street, the blood of a dog who dies—it doesn't matter. That's a bad thing. A regular person shouldn't like for people to die, that anyone should die. Across the whole spectrum, whether Christian, Muslim, or Jew—any denomination.
Your family gets scared for you when you're out. I mean, when you go out of the house, your family is scared that you will die.
Blood has become something really cheap. Unfortunately, it's cheap… it's been cheap for a long time in Egypt. It's very cheap. People have started to deal with everyday death as though it's something normal. I mean, people have lost their humanity. They've started to see blood every day in the street; just a regular thing, no big deal that someone died. Like, there could be a flood in some shop and that would be a bigger event than five people dying.
Blood is tied to every revolutionary youth, and now it's tied to every Egyptian home. There is no Egyptian home that hasn't lost a martyr. There isn't a neighborhood in Egypt that doesn't have a martyr. There is no place in Egypt that doesn't have the blood of a martyr.
We didn't even know… I mean, I didn't notice that there was conduct of the State that… yeah, yeah there are arrests… but I didn't hear that people died as a result of detention.
How many people were taken before the revolution, like the one that started the revolution: Khaled Said. Was he the first one? He wasn't the first one, nor will he be the last. The number of people who've disappeared and whom we don't know anything about—they're millions. It's true. But at least now, their blood has value, and its value will be paid. Before the revolution, it didn't. No human had any value or price… not their blood, nor their person, nor their existence.
This notion of a lack of humanity: that when you see someone die, you say, "Yeah, well who were they? Were they Muslim or Christian? Did they follow the Muslim Brotherhood or the revolutionaries? Were they felool or police?" The notion that you deal with death according to the type of blood, the color of blood… All blood is one color. It doesn't matter whose blood it is.
They say, "Egyptian blood is expensive," and, "The sanctity of blood." We found our Sheikh of al-Azhar putting out at a fatwa: "Kill them! They are Khawarij, they have a rotten stench!"
Anyone who justifies blood is a son of a bitch.
All blood is haram, whether the blood of a Muslim, a Christian, or a Jew. God didn't give you the right to kill or to shed blood. Bloodshed is for God only. It's worse than demolishing the Kaaba; to God, killing is worse than demolishing the Kaaba. Like, I think that… I really hate the Brotherhood, but I'm not with anyone who says that their blood is at your disposal, as the Mufti says. The Mufti declares that they can be killed with no problem, that they are Khawarij and, like, all sorts of weird stuff.
Hate is never the solution; nor is it the solution to say, "Today we're going to round up all the Muslim Brothers," and do to them what was done to them. It's not a solution.
There are people that are sympathetic towards them—towards the Brotherhood—so you have to have a kind of enticement. You have to entice them with economic development, by making broad economic reforms, by expanding the public sector, incorporating companies and factories into the public sector, by providing work to the youth, by giving them healthcare, public transportation, and housing projects, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. But violence is not the ideal way to solve the problem. 
There is no such thing… none of it will ever end as long as we keep going in the direction of killing. That way there will continue to be blood. Consequently, the blood that we see today in the streets, the terrorism and so on, is the result of people being killed. Thus, the notion of revenge that Egyptians have will continue, and the legacy that we keep. From there, the blood of the Muslim Brothers will continue to be spilled, and then our own blood, and then we will kill them, and so on. 
Death is a dangerous thing in Egyptian culture, to the point that when someone goes to express their intense love to their beloved, they say, "I die in you." In regards to blood, Egyptians have a degree at which they stop. They have something: a thermostat. They say, "Death stops here, and life begins."
We hope to never see blood again; we hope that we will see no more martyrs; we hope that we see no more people injured. Dear God, please God, let's never see blood again. I know that I'll see it. 
The amount of hatred, hostility, and malice that has come out is at an unacceptable degree, but it's not without basis. I mean, people aren't crazy; there's a basis for it.
Of course: it's the rights of our brothers and sisters who died, who were injured in demonstrations or wherever. Of course, we will never forsake them.
Blood is an imprint; blood is a sign; blood is protection; blood is freedom. Blood is everything. Without the blood of these people, we would not today still be able to live in this country. A lot of people have left. Those who have stayed, have stayed because of the blood of those martyrs. They haven't stayed for anything else, because there's nothing in this country that could make anyone stay. It's true. Those who have stayed, have stayed so their blood isn't wasted.