I think that the people are the most important thing in all of this. In everything I've read here—trials and dignity, terrorists and the president—I mean, the people have to be there. For there to be a state, for there to be a president, for there to be a plan, there have to be people. They're the people.
The people: a big word, a very big word. Not a small thing.
Wherever you are in the world, a people are defined as a group who share qualities, who are gathered together on an identified territory. Let's talk about the Egyptian people.
The people: Egyptian people, who live on this land. They are very diverse, with very different circumstances. That's normal for any country with a long history, and Egypt is the navel of the world.
We are here in the center of the world, where there is always transit through you. Coming, going… north, south… east, west. This has always been a focal point for aspirations or zeal for power; for those who want to control transportation and for those who want to control sources of wealth. Egypt is a place of interest from that point of view. So, the people are the product of that experience.
The people are beautiful, they are magnificent, they are great! They have a cultural and civilizational lineage that you unearth at the critical moment… you find it settles the issue. Without the people, you can't do anything.
They have a modern history that is still taking shape as a result of colonization. Before colonization, there was the Ottoman Empire, and after it came revolutionary rule in military form. In this new position, the people are learning their rights, and how to deal with power.
Before the revolution, I didn't feel that I was like Egyptians in the streets, or that we wanted the same thing. The revolution allowed me to feel like we all really want the same thing. All of us have truly spent years bothered by something, and suddenly we all have one dream. I mean, suddenly we all speak the same language.
Me and you, my mom and my dad, my brother and my cousin—that's the people, the people who speak up. The people are the ones who choose; they say who comes and who doesn't. They choose their president.
Suddenly, I was in the middle of the Square, saying, "The people demand the fall of the regime," with the people… with five hundred thousand other people. That's really January 25th for me—the first time I felt that I was Egyptian, in the sense that I am an Egyptian with other Egyptians. Suddenly I found out that I am an Egyptian with ninety million other Egyptians… all of us Egyptians, and that's the people. These are the people: I am a part of them, they are a part of me, and we all want the same thing.
A very powerful people—no one can stop them. On January 28th, how many armored cars did you see effortlessly flipped over? It was really something! They flipped them over easily, three or four at a time. Tik, tak, tuk… they flipped them over!
My dad, may he rest in peace, was an activist—a revolutionary by nature. My dad, may he rest in peace, used to say, "The people are cowardly, and the ruler is a tyrant." — So I'd ask him, "Why are the people cowardly? They're brave, and they've got courage." — He said, "It's the people's fear that allows the ruler to be more of a tyrant—to be more unjust."
The people are the ones who give power to the regime. They egg it on and they let it be more powerful. I don't belong to those people, and it does not honor me to be a part of them.
Like, Egyptian people used to describe the community. Now, the Egyptian people who are with El-Sisi are different from the Egyptian people who are with Hamdeen Sabahi, so you feel like there's a split in the classification of people.
Our people are now split in many things. The people who are looking for their rights and freedom—those are the protesters and the revolutionaries. The people who are living their lives, just surviving—those are the ones who don't care at all about the country and just want to live their lives, that's it. The people who are young, living their lives not caring about anything, who want to get an education and be something in the future—those are good people, may God grant them their wishes.
The people have become a game—everyone wants to speak in their name. Like, I'm an Islamist party and I come out and speak in the name of the people. Or, I'm a liberal party: "Well, I'm just afraid for the people." And, anyone who runs for office does the same thing.
Here, I'll talk about the people—not the people who revolted, but the people who are enslaved, the ones they call honorable citizens. I think that we revolted against slavery in order to get rid of it, and I think the honorable citizens revolted in order to improve the conditions of slavery… to increase their own enslavement, you get me? Like for instance, when we went out on January 25th… last January 25th… someone died. So we were carrying him and running, and some people came and blocked our way and said, "Turn around and go back the other way. You are thugs and thieves—you're getting paid." And the guy was dead. Like, we didn't save him because the police were after us. So I think that the people are our fight now… they are the ones we want to revolt against now. We don't need to revolt against the regime, because every time we revolt against it the people stop us, because they are many. I mean, they are many and they don't understand a thing.
Go look at the station under the bridge; that's where you'll see the real people. The things you see in Khaled Youssef's movies—those are the people. You know why? Because they are the majority, so they're the people. Don't we have democracy now? So, it's the majority. Yeah, we've got democracy, isn't that what's written in the constitution? A democratic constitution! Right? The government said democracy, so it's democracy.
Unfortunately, the Egyptian people are now mostly artful deceivers, thieves in one form or another, thugs, intentionally unemployed people who refuse to be educated. The thirty years of Mubarak's rule, and Sadat's before him, certainly had to produce a people like that. I'm talking about the youth who are thirty-something, not people like me who are around forty, who are the last generation to get an acceptable education, a decent one. Because, really, since the beginning of the nineties or around that time, education didn't just start to crumble… it was exactly as if an army of ants were eating the foundation of a wooden house, and they spent twenty years eating and you didn't notice, and suddenly the whole house falls on you, boom! And you're like, "Oh my God! How did the house fall?!" You didn't notice that these ants had been eating the foundation for twenty years.
All of the youth today are a generation of summaries. They're not educated. The professors in college give them summaries, and in the end they know this page and that page, and this report, and a month after the exam they don't know anything at all. It's like if a petrochemical engineer gets out of college and doesn't have a lab or anyplace to try anything, or any companies to train in or anything.
The people pain me, because even if they're bad and their behavior is bad, it's not their fault, because no one has taken care of them, raised them or trained them. In my opinion, if I don't raise my son and daughter well, are they going to raise themselves? The people need management to qualify them to be good, even if… even if they've got the good luck to know how to raise themselves. But the poor, hardworking people can't do it… the people in the slums… poor, poor them.
The people are oppressed, right? The poor, hardworking people are oppressed. The unfortunate people, the poor people at the bottom, the ones who are looking for just a hundred pounds… They just want to live. We just live.
They're hungry… they are so hungry, and the prices keep going up and up. Like, I used to go the supermarket and I'd spend fifty pounds and go home. Now it's two hundred pounds. I can't believe I have to tell my wife, "Hold back a bit." In order to cover our expenses, we need at least six thousand pounds. Six thousand pounds! That's nowhere near enough to take a summer vacation, to buy clothes, to get any other little thing. I think ten thousand pounds for a young, middle class guy would be nice, to be… to be a human being, I mean. Not to live in luxury, but just to be human.
We had a president some time ago called Abdel Nasser, and he said, "The people are the leaders and the teachers." I swear to God. I'm sorry, but that saying has totally and completely proved for me the failure of the one who said it. The people are not the leaders and the teachers, and the people are not aware. The people are not teachers because they don't know anything to begin with. The people don't know anything except to eat and drink. "Feed me, and I'll work for you." They're ignorant.
Look, I've learned this: you can't light a fire from above. I can't be, like, a guy who wants to cook or make a pot of tea, and light the fire from above. I have to light it from below.
We don't want a revolution that's protests and stuff. We need a revolution that's… a revolution of morals. I mean, I wish our morals would increase somewhat. We need a revolution in knowledge, because knowledge elevates people. If people were educated, this country would be so much better. And we need to stop talking; we need action more than talk. We have diarrhea, like Dr. Ahmed Okasha said… I really, really liked the metaphor when he said it… he said, "Egyptians have diarrhea of the mouth and they are constipated in work."
When the time comes that the people want something, they'll go to the streets, but it has to be in a different way. The revolution isn't a protest, it isn't a battle, it isn't clashes. It has to be intellectual. The people will organize themselves; the people with problems will get together and imagine solutions to their problems and ideas. They'll start to work on them, and they'll get the authorities to come in and solve their problems.



