Police is a word that means a lot. When you first hear it: fear and not understanding. A misunderstood entity. 
When you think about them, you think about weapons and someone who could arrest you.
Before and after the revolution, the police are the same entity. They haven't changed. On the contrary, they've gotten scarier than before.
In social science, they're the entity that possesses the power of legitimized force. But in Egypt, we also have a unique case in which they are a power on their own: the power of brutality. They are aware that they are the power of brutality, and they sell themselves as the power of brutality.
Before the revolution, we didn't know anything about the police other than that they enforce the interests of their leaders and defend the state.
Before and after the revolution, Egyptians and the youth and everybody hated the police, because their tactics were never in the people's interest and never in the citizen's interest. Their tactics: torture, beating, humiliation, insults… They are never held accountable for anything. 
I've never liked to pass by the Ministry of the Interior. I go around it.
Honest to God, I don't like to talk about the police, because it doesn't do any good. Nothing gets done if I say anything, so I'd rather not talk about it.
The police are supposed to protect people, to be the first to be behind the people. We don't see that at all. They defend who they want; they stand with who they feel like standing with.
The police should in service of the people. They don't serve the people.
The police are the regime's shield, الملمعتية بتوع النظام, and the regime's thugs.
Before the revolution, the police were the whip with which to flog the people, to keep them in line with the regime.
If the President's job is to make people slaves, the police are the club that he beats them with.
Their job is to frighten and horrify you, so that you stay in control.
The job of the police is to take care of the interior security of the country, but because of them security in this country is beyond hope.
They don't have even an inch of the efficiency needed to serve the people, so they practice the worst kinds of violence and repression towards the classes that don't have the ability to challenge them.
They protect the President's gang and the corrupt people in the country, and they don't crack down on anyone except the poor, hardworking people.
I imagine I'm the only guy who loves the police. They take a large part of my heart with love, respect, and deference, I swear to God. I adore the police.
I've never personally had a problem with an officer or anything like that, so that's pretty much one of the things that makes me hate them. Like, I don't have any real power over who my parents are, where we ended up living, and how we were dealt with, and others don't have any power over the fact that they were born in slums or didn't finish school or whatever. For example, I always take taxis, and I was never stopped in a taxi at a checkpoint or anything like that, except recently. I know really well that people who take microbuses and شهادات متوسطة and those things, maybe an officer arrests them and beats the crap out of them for no reason other than that they ended up there, I mean. There's really no guarantee that you'll be treated justly by an officer.
I swear that the police contain the worst people who know how to oppress. For every rule there is an exception, so yeah, there are probably some who are nice and some who know God.
I want to say that there are really respectable people in the police—really respectable officers. I'm telling you that it's informants who are the destroying the police. Nowadays the Ministry of the Interior doesn't use its officers. The informants are everything. It's emergency law that made people hate the police. 
I don't think there's one good person in the whole thing. They are all bastards.
The Ministry of the Interior is one of those corrupt institutions whose corruption has had a terrible effect on the Egyptian people. Its corruption isn't just material; we're talking about a corruption that affects the individual directly. Its corruption started in the days of Mubarak, in that the الوسيلة الدخول للمنظومة دي فاسدة، أصلا.
There's not one officer from a poor family. Every officer's father was an officer, and half of them failed at school. And they have conscripts underneath them, and those conscripts are farmers' sons.
In my opinion, the police are criminals فيش جنائي. They are arrest, they are assault, they are humiliation. Ultimately, if your father brought you up well and never raised his hand to you, a policeman is gonna knock you out. He's a thug, and in the end he'll see himself as the best person in the country.
The police are a bunch of… I'm gonna swear… nasty sons of bitches. I remember before the revolution, they used to send out someone called the investigator, the معاون المباحث. He'd go sit in a coffee shop, the one that we hang out at, and search us. He'd go in a microbus, and take the driver of the microbus by force for the entire day,  ويلم عاطل على باطل. A bunch of wild dogs who obliterate any shred of dignity you've got left. Even if you're an important person—it doesn't matter to them.
Before the revolution, they were out of control; even the way they stopped you made you feel like an animal.
But after the January 25th Revolution, on January 28th, we gave them a lesson they'll never forget: that the youth are not afraid, and will never be afraid.
The youth really weren't afraid. They assaulted them, ran after them and gave them a thrashing they'll never forget. It'll stay on in their minds and their memories forever that the revolutionaries really let them know that they will never be afraid of them again.
Before the revolution, I was scared of them. After the revolution, I'm still scared of them.
The most that we dealt with them was during the clashes. They would assault us and be happy about it. Deep down, they were thrilled. They don't even understand why they're assaulting us. Sorry, but they get people who don't understand anything. Why don't they get someone educated and tell them, "Go assault those people"? Like, why don't they get the Army to come do that to me? Because they know that the Army will say, "No." But this other guy, who doesn't understand anything, they tell him, "Do such and such to these people," and he does it to you right away. "Beat that guy," or "Kill them," and they just do it.
I was just talking to a policeman the other day. I said to him, "Do you know why you go out and assault us?" He said, "No, I'm just taking orders." I said, "So why can't you break the orders?" He said, "I'd be put in jail." I said to him, "But you could kill your brother." He said, "Yeah, when I sit and think about it, it's true, my brother could be in the protests and I could kill him."
My favorite ever chant in the protests was, "The police are thugs." It's really the only one I say, from deep down in my heart. I used to go in the marches from Mostafa Mahmoud, the ones going to Tahrir. We'd always pass by the Dokki precinct, so it was an essential thing: "The police are thugs." Yeah, I used to be so happy to see them standing there pretending they didn't notice. Like, it's not them!
Before the revolution, the police were despots and they were always heard. After the revolution, they were kittens.
After they fled, people started to sympathize with the police, and they said that we had to sympathize with them. It turned out that when they got their prestige back, nothing at all had changed. The officers killed the revolutionaries, and all of them were found innocent.
After that, when Mohamed Morsi left, they pulled out all the stops again.
On June 30th, they tried to get themselves together again.
And of course the police's violations even reached girls. They took girls and raped them and beat them in the universities. Even the people who pray, just because they talk about justice, they arrest them under the guise of attempting to overthrow the regime.
We started to understand that the police officers aren't just officers, but that often they are business men. أول ما بيخلص له مصالح، بيخلصها من تحت لتحت.
But I don't think that the police are doing anything at all. They have to get permission from the Army to do anything, because they don't know how to do anything. 
Like, say there's a bomb a little bit behind the police station, and I called in about it. What's supposed to happen is that as soon as I call in about it, the forces should be ready to go out and get to me right away. That's what supposed to happen, anyway. But no. They wait, they call the commissioner, the commissioner calls the inspector and takes a service order. The inspector takes the service order to the governor and the security director, and the security director calls the general in charge of the inspector and the police chief, and the inspector who is the police chief gives the general's order. By the time they come to the rescue, the bomb's already gone off.
Now I think they are like divorced women. They're just like a divorced woman who can't control anyone, and whom no one can control either. They get permission from the Army for everything, and their existence is just an image for certain people. But they don't enforce any laws, and they don't control anything that has anything to do with their responsibilities, which is to provide security for the people and enforce the laws that the regime mandates.
To put it more bluntly, there are no police in this country. Whose police? The military eggs the police on, and the military allows them to act with impunity. Yeah, the police will work with any regime; they don't know a higher power. They worked with Mubarak. They worked with Morsi. They work with El-Sisi. They work with anyone.
And until now, the police are just the same. Recently, when our friends were released from prison, an officer stood in my way. They still won't let me take photos. I swear to God, they are forbidding my freedom.
Honestly, the Ministry of the Interior is the dirtiest institution. If they said to me, "We're going to change the entire Ministry," I wouldn't believe them, because every time they say, "We changed the head of the police," the whole thing stays exactly the same. It changes, but it doesn't change from where we're looking. 
But I know that they have a lot of disadvantages, like a great number of people. Like their wages. Police officers are supposed to be people in a certain class, but in reality their wages are just as bad as a lot of other people. So they find other ways to make money. I was hoping that maybe the revolution would make a change for a lot of people who want to get their rights and live a just life. But, with time, I found out that even the people who want change and reforms inside the police have ideas that aren't terribly different from how the police itself thinks at the end of the day. The people who were actually different, who were affected by the revolution—most of them quit. 
They were supposed to develop with the people, and let the events play out.
If only the police had dealt with people respectfully, the revolution wouldn't have started. Mubarak would have appeased the thing or whatever, but now, people finally know what dignity is. We didn't have dignity. There's not just a button you press to get dignity back—no. For people who are used to misconduct, it takes time to become respectful. It's not just the police; we ourselves have become disrespectful as well. Between ourselves we have no dignity. We have to start to raise ourselves up anew.
A little… it's changed a little. I took it on myself to talk to a lot of officers, in different situations. I saw how officers talk to people and how they act when they ask for licenses and such. They've changed their tactics a little bit. In general, they've gotten really close to people and especially on June 30th. The demonstrators were saying, "The Army and the police and the people are one hand." Obviously, they didn't get a whole lot better, and there are still a lot of bad ones.
The only solution is that all these people are put in prison and we start to get new people on the payroll—people who haven't yet been exposed to corruption. Because anyone right now, even if they've only been in the police for two years, has been indoctrinated.
The most important thing, before anything else, is that police officers study psychology. They should lock up people who are a real danger, and the officer who makes the call should be someone who has studied psychology. Not some random informant who arrests you because he doesn't like how you look or something. It's never his right to just take you away and put you in jail.
The only solution is that they become real servants. 
Our revolution is a popular revolution, and we will never be allies of the police until they are cleansed. It's an entity in need of cleansing. 
Before the revolution, I used to think that the Ministry of the Interior had to be cleansed. After the revolution, I discovered that cleansing the police is impossible. Actually, they should all be arrested, but I don't know how.
They need extermination, not cleansing.
I think that the Ministry of the Interior is a lost cause. There is no way to fix it except destruction from the foundation, because its foundations are corrupt. How can you talk about تعمل عمرة جوه البيت when the foundations of the house itself are مخوخة and rotten? There is no hope. There is no hope for them.
We will continue to be against them as long as they practice repression, ignorance, and torture. We will remain against them until they change their practices, even though the revolutionaries know they won't change. But we still hope. Maybe, if one of the revolutionaries gets in power, they'll change.
There is no security in this country. Security means just one thing: that I assault a protest, break up a march, arrest youth from the universities, go in and attack someone and his wife, and take them on charges of terrorism. That's the police. The last thing was my colleague who founded the Anti-Harassment Campaign in Cairo; his campaign was to catch harassers and write on them: "Harasser." Can you imagine what the officer did? What do you think the officer should do?
Arrest the harasser.
No, he arrested the one who caught him, and they stayed a whole day at the prosecutor's office. What more is there than that! Where is the justice here? How will I trust them? There are no police in this country.




 