Before the revolution, the president was the one who all-out ruled the country, right? The one who was just, like, all-out the president. Through-and-through, a thief and a gangster who ruled by decree: Daddy Mubarak!
The president before the revolution was Mubarak. I was born and lived my whole life until January 25th, 2011—twenty-seven years of my life—and I never saw another president. So whenever anyone said, "The President," it was Mubarak. The position was the person and the person was the position. The two were indistinguishable. Mubarak and his position were one and the same. 
After I lived twenty-seven years dealing with the president as this person named Mubarak, I got to know that we had an assassinated president, an ousted president—Mubarak—a deposed president, and an interim president. So now, when someone says, "The President," you say, "Which one of them?" I mean, finally I've started to hear in my life the question, "Which president?" I never heard that before in my life.
Before the revolution, I thought presidents ran ninety percent of everything. After the revolution, I discovered that the president of any republic in the world—even America itself—doesn't even run forty percent of what you see. Like, the president is a puppet in most countries, and there's another power behind him that rules. 
The president has no authority over anything—not a minister or any control. The president just assesses the State's foreign relations. That's what a president is, from my perspective.
He's someone who has a shitload of money, and destroys the country.
He's an employee of the State. He's supposed to be the most senior employee in the whole country… in the institution of the government. But unfortunately, the people are the ones who give him a really high position, all the way at the top… and after that, they come and say, "Why doesn't he care about us?" Like, the people are the ones who do it to themselves.
A president is the people's servant. The people's servant. 
Everyone says, "I want to be the president… I wish I were the president." When you really look at it, I wouldn't want to be the president. It's a huge responsibility, an enormous burden that هتتسأل عليه أدام ربنا في الآخر in the end you'll have to answer to God for. مش هتبقى عارف أصلا إنت بتتساءل على إيه. You won't know what you're answering for. 
His job is to enslave this piece of land here. I mean, he rules the people on this here piece of land, and makes them slaves to the master, which is of course the Europeans and the Americans. He associates himself with the class of slavemasters. First it was Sadat, who turned the position of president into being a thug—a thug who comes to beat people with a stick. That's the job. Sadat, Mubarak, and Morsi were like that, but there was a bit of a leap, and of course El-Sisi is the dude. He's gonna come and beat you up, you'll be slaves, you'll listen to what he says, and whoever doesn't is gonna get a whooping. That's the president's job, and whoever comes next will be like that—and the next, and the next.
At the end of the day, it's something foreigners have done for us, right? So there's someone to rule and control us. But we shouldn't have anyone ruling us; everyone should rule their own house. I own myself; I'm king of myself. But here comes someone to say, "I'm the president," and force things on us that I don't want. Maybe someone else can accept it, but I completely won't accept it.
I really don't think that we're going to get anyone who's fair and just in Egypt… like, maybe the only one who had a good grasp on Egypt was Abdel Nasser, and after that military rule didn't bring us any good president. And of course, that's evidence that the ones who are controlling us are… they're foreign. So our system is really just like not getting anyone good, because whoever comes doesn't belong to his country. 
In the history of Egypt, I think that it was Sadat… Sadat was the one decent president who was sort of fair, I mean. He did Camp David, he did whatever else… he did stuff for Egypt, and the people were… like, they were doing well, they were happy.
In my opinion, the only one who deserves to be called a president—and I still really hate him—was President Gamal Abdel Nasser, because he was like the only one who loved Egypt, as I see it. He was a son of a bitch and he tortured my grandfather and my father and everything, but he was the only one who tried to do anything for Egypt, even though we didn't really like what he did.
I feel like we're going back to the days of Abdel Nasser. Really, the detentions and that whole police state thing… we're going back there. 
Like, I didn't use the word president to describe Morsi, because he wasn't really a president and he didn't act like a president. What did he do? A president like does stuff, and he didn't do anything. He didn't make like any points of progress, production, or fix anything. On the contrary, there was destruction and chaos, and no security. 
Mubarak was a president, but he was unjust. He was the president that controlled security; he was in control of the most important thing, but of course he was unjust. Why? Because he gave power to للرؤسا the chairpersons. He was the president of security… just the president of security. 
I mean, I personally know very well that the next guy who's going to be called president is going to be a bad person, and I know because he even tried to get in the game. If he wins it, he's definitely even worse than that, regardless of who he is. The president always talks to Egyptians like they're a girl they want to seduce and like, take to a hotel room. So I really hope my son isn't a president, or my dad, or myself. I wouldn't want to be president, even I was the first female president of Egypt.
The next president is going to have to deal with a lot of bad shit. He's going to have to deal with all of Mubarak's corruption, and all of Morsi's idiocy. Because of that, he needs to be someone strong, and he has to come from the military, whether we agree to it or not. He's got to have a good, strong character that makes you respect him. Why? Because he charms you into respecting him. Look, Egypt needs a president from SCAF. Why? Because he'll know how to drive the people like they need to be driven, like they want, to have their arms twisted.
The presidency is a mandate, not an honor. I mean, when a president works for a faction or for some small thing, he will definitely be defeated. But if I come to serve the state, and I work for the state, the state will be a shield for me, and not for a small faction.
  


