Before the revolution, the word protest meant a few people getting together and demanding something together that they saw as their right. It was something haram and wrong and shameful, because there was emergency law against it. I mean, it wasn't possible for people to get together in a certain number specified by the law, and I don't know how many it was.
In the past, I didn't hear about it a lot, but I always knew that there were people with demands—who wanted to demand their rights—and they would go out to protest. I would always see protests done either by workers—workers with rights they needed—or by university students who had problems inside the university with their professors, so they would protest.
Protests before the revolution were either done by revolutionary movements like Kefaya, who might, in their glory, gather two thousand people and say, "That's it, the revolution has come." They'd go draw a square on the ground like this and write on it, "This is a free place." Or the Muslim Brotherhood, with Brotherhood protests.
And then, January 25th came, and truly a lot of people went out to protest.
I didn't know that the people could rise up in protests until after January 25th. I didn't know how protests were organized, or who organized protests. I found out all of that after the revolution.
We protested with our demands in 2011. We'd stand in the street like this and light tires on fire. We'd stand and not let people pass by. We'd make demands like, "We want housing," — "We want water," — we want whatever — "We want electricity that doesn't go out," — we want things — "We want to get our freedom."
We protested, but we didn't harm anyone. We didn't pressure anyone, make any trouble, or anything. It's not a protest, it's like… it's like… it's like demands. But for the revolution to go and say, "Waah, waah," in the middle of a residential area in the city or whatever, to shriek—no! We would go out into the streets for an hour and a half and then leave. I mean, we never made any big trouble. It would finish, so, like, the area was nice.
When I went out, I found it was a bit of a celebration. I found every group on its own in a corner of the Square; everyone under a big banner with the name of a party or a group, something like that. People didn't look like they were together; they looked like different people coming to a festival or something like that.
Like, I suspect that's really what broke up the protesters: the people who were taking photos, the people playing drums, bringing X-minis and playing music, and the people who were really standing shoulder to shoulder, pouring with sweat—people who were really fed up.
There was a time when there was a protest every Friday, when the protests against Mubarak had finished and stuff. For sure, they had a different taste. I mean, not everyone was unified around a common goal. No, there were different goals to a certain extent. I mean, everyone was going out for an individual purpose—a purpose exclusive to themselves. 
Now, the idea that everyone gets together and demands something together is also wrong, haram, shameful, and everything, but not because of emergency law. It's by people's order, choice, demand, and initiative—by the will of the people. They went out and protested, and said, "We don't want protests anymore."
The day before yesterday, the police went out to clear Talaat Harb Street and Isaaf of street vendors and that kind of thing. I saw the street vendors protesting and saying, "We will lay out our wares." So, anyone can protest for any reason, even if it's completely unnecessary. But it's not going to make any change; it's not going to develop the country when you protest in order to lay your wares in the street.
There are protests everywhere! You see protests coming from here and protests coming from there. What have they done?! They were assaulted and humiliated, and their blood was spilt on the ground. Because that's the right thing; their blood has to be spilled on the ground.
There's a difference between a demonstration and a protest. You do demonstrations when you want a wage increase in order to eat, because things have gotten expensive—when people can't afford it, when they work day and night and can't afford things. Protesters have to die because they come out to destroy the country even more than it's already destroyed. Everyone who goes out to protest says… on TV the next day, finally on the lying media, they say that the stocks fell down into the ground because there was a protest in Alexandria, a protest in Cairo. Well, you're ruining the country for us; why are you destroying it? Just leave people alone to feed their children. No protest ever accomplished anything.



