RABAA
I went and looked up who Rabaa was, and it turns out she was an awesome lady, in Baghdad. She was like Hypatia or someone, except the Islamic version. 
Rabaa al-Adawiya was, as they say in history books, the fourth daughter in the family, so her father called her Rabaa [the fourth]. Her story may or may not be true… it's more or less a legend.
This is Rabaa's story: a woman who started her life in an immoral way, and then found God. When they built a mosque in her name in Madinat Nasr, and the Brotherhood went and did a sit-in there, it took on another meaning related to the ideals of the Brotherhood's sit-in after Morsi was deposed. 
Rabaa: a Square where a lot of things happened. Wrong things amended by wrong things.
I think the first stupid thing was that they called Rabaa al-Adawiya a square, because Rabaa al-Adawiya is not a square—it's a traffic light. It's close to my house, so I know really well how many people can fit there. It's not like Tahrir at all—and Itihadiya isn't like Tahrir either. Especially since at the time the streets of Egypt were full of protests, really, that were against… like, against Morsi.
When Tamarod was campaigning in the country and tricking people into thinking that they had to go out in a revolution against Morsi, obviously there were people who supported legitimacy and understood the game from the beginning. They understood that it was just a cover for something bigger—not just going out against Morsi. So they got themselves together and went out to Rabaa three days before June 30th.
Rabaa al-Adawiya was the reason for June 30th. The sit-in at Rabaa was sort of before June 30th. People had to go out. People went out to get rid of those people, because like when they came onto the arena they really looked like they were gonna take us back to a time before the dark ages, even.
They're the ones who started it by making a revolution. Who were they revolting against? Who were they supporting? What did they want a revolution for? Before June 30th, the Muslim Brotherhood إن هما إن صار الرئيس يخرجوا… So why did they go out? In service of what… to do what? No one had even been deposed yet!
They stood up in order to show people that just as there was advocacy against Morsi, there was also advocacy in support of him. There has to be balance.
I saw Christians at Rabaa, and not a small number. I saw people who don't even know anything about religion, not Muslim Brothers or Salafis or anything like that at all. There were people who had never once worn hijab, but were still Muslims. People who couldn't find anything to eat would go to Rabaa to eat. They were the people, the rich and the poor…everybody was there at Rabaa. 
They were lowlifes, not people who truly understand religion… and other bad people went, people who don't love their country and who carry out orders like slaves, everybody killing each other. Whoever crossed through the sit-in got killed, and the people who lived in the area got hurt. 
Their purpose was to be peaceful.
At the start, when they said, "Go out and give a mandate," I sat around, like, thinking to myself for a bit, and I thought, "No, a mandate means go kill those people." But quite honestly, I wanted to get rid of the Muslim Brotherhood. And I'll tell you something else: if I didn't have a bit of humanity, I would have said, "Ok, kill them." But I mean, I… I couldn't do it.
At first, before I saw the clearing of the sit-in, I approved. They said, "We have a number of peaceful ways to get Rabaa under control." Dude, spray water on them—they'll drown inside and leave. Dude, I'm not going to say, "Shoot gas on them," but don't shoot them that way! I mean, you spent something like half of Egypt's budget on clearing the sit-in at Rabaa. I mean, what was so horribly wrong that it had to get to that point? What happened to them was too much… way too much… way, way too much. 
The thing is that we were played. To tell you the truth, I'm one of the people who got played. And Morsi… Morsi's no good. He really isn't any good at all. I got played from the start when they made me choose between Morsi and Shafik. I chose Morsi, but the thing is that you were forced to go out and choose Morsi, and then you were forced to go out to the streets to get rid of him. There'd been a conflict between you and the Muslim Brotherhood, and people died at the hands of the Brotherhood. So you wanted to get rid of the Muslim Brotherhood, and then someone came and told you, "I can get rid of them for you."
The day they cleared the Rabaa sit-in was really strange. I didn't hear a sound. That's the first time I've ever heard the sound of silence in Cairo. I remember looking out the window, and everything was empty, as though it were the end of the world and I was the last person on earth. 
I felt, like, empty that day… I don't know… I didn't feel anything. They were saying on TV that the sit-in was cleared, it went well, and stuff like that. I was just totally flat… nothing at all. I didn't know whether I was happy or sad, if it was right or wrong, or what was going on. I couldn't figure it out.
When we went to Rabaa al-Adawiya, when there was the war, I went with my mom and dad, and my aunts and uncles, and there were a lot of people. We went there and it was like they were getting people out. There was a fat, white guy… not really fat, but like he had a nice body and he looked stylish and important, wearing black pants and black clothes… and he was dead. He was like drowning in blood and stuff. When we went over there and my mom said, "Cover him up with something, it's torture." The ladies there were understanding and stuff.
I was at the clearing of the Rabaa sit-in and a lot of photos of me standing behind the security came out on Facebook. But I was standing behind the security for a particular purpose. I went to see, to witness the events and see what was happening. I went in… I went in behind them. I saw dead bodies strewn about. I started to check for a pulse, and pull out the live ones and put them on a motorcycle, saying, "Take them to an ambulance."
Yeah, my relative died there. My relative wasn't a Muslim Brother… those are my father's relatives. He just went there at dawn, and—I swear to God I'm not joking—there were people dying and he went there to gather them up.
Someone I know told me that because of the number of dead bodies, we were stepping on people's brains as they were coming out of their heads. We were standing in blood… I mean, we were standing in blood. From my perspective, it was literally a massacre.
That night, I went out and saw people walking in the streets. I stopped and talked to an old man—I felt he had just passed through something really awful… a really awful experience. I didn't ask him any questions or anything, so he could say or not say what he wanted. I asked him, "Where are these people going?" — He said, "They're going home." — He kept saying this one word, "It was an extermination… an extermination…" He kept repeating the word every minute, "It was an extermination. It was an extermination."
A lot my friends died, God have mercy on their souls: Gaber, God have mercy on him, Christie… What did the youth who died do wrong? My cousin Maryam, what did she do wrong so that she had to die at Rabaa? She was taking photos! Why… why… why?
It had to happen to them. It was a den of sin… as I see it, it was a den of sin. From what I know, if it hadn't happened it would have gotten out of control. It had to be done.
I was changed on the day of the sit-in. I was completely against the sit-in… I mean, against its goals. I didn't go there, except maybe once. But the idea is that people died… a lot of people died. They died in atrocious ways. Some were burned to death. There was a six-month old baby who died in the gas.
I think the clearing of the Rabaa sit-in was a human massacre by all measures. Around four or five thousand people died at Rabaa, just like that. There were girls and children, and sheikhs. They weren't just assaulted in a stupid way—it was atrocious. The most atrocious things you could imagine. 
The clearing of the sit-in should have happened early, before everything got the point that it did. 
They said, "We could have gotten the sit-in under control on the first day." So why didn't you do it from the start, without killing anyone?"
They stayed there for so long—much longer than necessary—but what was done to them was a hundred percent wrong. They should have used political means. It wasn't right to do to them any of the things that were done to them, by any means.
A massacre by every measure of the word—and to some degree I think less of anyone who won't admit that it was a massacre. 
The day of Rabaa was… it was an atrocious day, in the whole history of humanity I think, not just Egypt's history.
The next day, there was a sit-in at Iman Mosque, at Makram Ebeid. Of course, it was much smaller. I went there, and no one said anything. It was very normal. The following day, they cleared it. That was it, it was over… I mean, the worst crime I've heard of since I came to Egypt, in which over five hundred people died on the same day. It just ended, normally… as though it were nothing. Of course, a lot of people died in protests at the time, and no one cared about them. But all at once, on the same day, more than five hundred people died and no one was upset! At the time, you felt… you felt alienated. Like, who are these people that I live with?
The way that everyone cursed them and thirsted for blood… it was really the first time I thought the people around me, a lot of them, might be… they really might be… might be… I don't know… I mean, all of these people who were demanding freedom of expression, I couldn't believe that they they were the very same people who were cursing other people who were expressing their needs, in their own way, in the place that was important to them.
If the military establishment hadn't take the stance of taking Mohamed Morsi out of power, Egypt would have entered a vortex that we would never have known how to escape.



