The concept of reconciliation is that I have more than one party in a state of disagreement, and I try to get between them and do what's called a reconciliation. Before the revolution, the social perception of it might be that a woman and her husband were fighting, so we reconcile them together. Or, two brothers are fighting over their inheritance, so we reconcile them together. To a certain extent, it was one of our customary social practices. Customary, in that it happened away from the rule of law. 
When the January 25th Revolution happened, there was a schism between people: people against the entity of the regime, and people with Mubarak's regime.
After every sit-in, after every revolt, after every big thing that happened, the faction that we were against would ask for a reconciliation. They wanted us to reconcile with them just so that the country could move on—so that there wouldn't be violence and that kind of thing.
If we're going to talk about whether the concept of reconciliation ever happened: no, it never happened.
I don't even understand why reconciliation gets brought up! I mean, reconciliation before the revolution has achieved its goals, reconciliation before conditions in this country have improved, reconciliation before everyone has really been put on trial—I mean, real trials, not idiocy—reconciliation before people's blood was spilled in the middle, between the revolution and SCAF, between the time of the Brotherhood and when El-Sisi took power… Before we bring up the word reconciliation, things have to be put in place.
As revolutionaries, we will never reconcile as long as there is blood. We will never reconcile it.
The truth of the matter is that reconciliation has become advantageous when we want to reconcile the murdered with the murderer, and that's a mistake. 
I think the word reconciliation means that you're tricking us. I mean, the ones who come to reconcile with you are people you got yourself—people who are persuaded by your ideas—and they are not the original people. 
Well, who am I going to reconcile with? With Mubarak himself, with the men of the National Democratic Party? Or am I going to reconcile with every official who belongs to that regime? Will I reconcile with the families of the people who died? They'd say that there had to be reconciliation between the people and the police apparatus. Thus came a form of the term that no one could reach, that no one could achieve.
The whole subject developed after the Rabaa incident. For example, someone like ElBaradei came and, in his resignation, he spoke about this particular point: that violence only begets violence, but that in the end nothing but reconciliation can stabilize the nation.
Reconciliation with whom, my dear? With the Brotherhood, there's no such thing. With the Brotherhood, we either went out and said to Mohamed Morsi, "Early presidential elections… early presidential elections"… He didn't listen to the people; he ignored the people. He took the path of the Brotherhood; he went with the Brotherhood. We know very well, because we tried, that if we reconciled with them and achieved the demands of the revolution, that the Brotherhood would still go back and say, "Legitimacy. Legitimacy," and whatever else they say — "We want Mohamed Morsi." There is no reconciliation. There is no reconciliation with traitors, the military, felool, or the Brotherhood.
There will never be reconciliation after blood is spilled.
If you wanted things to calm down, you wouldn't have treated the Brotherhood the way you did after the clearing of the sit-in. If there was a problem with the clearing of the sit-in, if innocent people were killed, that's fine, just admit it and you will be tried for it. You wouldn't have done what you did after, which was to investigate anyone who had anything to do with the Brotherhood or who didn't, to take everyone to State Security on fabricated charges. There was more blood spilt even after the clearing of the sit-in, not just during the clearing. After all that you did—no, the time of reconciliation has passed.
Meaning that we said to the Brotherhood, "Go, disappear completely," and then we asked for a reconciliation. There will be reconciliation if the reconciliation means that they come back in a way that they're satisfied with, that they don't disappear completely from the Egyptian fabric, because they are, at the end of the day, people. There are Muslim Brothers, and people have to admit to that. As long as we kill and murder them, and then say, "Well, come here and we'll reconcile," it will obviously be a difficult thing. Where will the reconciliation come from?
For me, judicial justice is, for instance, a better term than the question of reconciliation. The term reconciliation is a misleading expression. The true reality is that the religious representatives themselves and the liberals who face them are children of the middle class. What we don't notice is that there is no ideological difference between them; they share one analytical approach. Whom are you reconciling with whom? They are friends and lovers. They are not really divided by class. Thus, the interests that they express are not at all different.
That's it, it's too late for reconciliation. It won't be possible. But maybe… maybe if some concessions were made, because there have to be some concessions in order for the dialogue to be resolved. A reconciliation requires that we return some of the Brotherhood leaders, even if only formally, but not under the name of the Brotherhood… there won't be a Brotherhood again, but they'll enter back into the political process. Because it's impossible, it's impossible for us to say to forty million, "Fuck off you sons of bitches, we'll take care of things." They have to… they have to be a part of the whole thing with you.
