The meaning of the word regime, before the revolution, was something organized: a system.
The word regime means how to rule people, or how to manage people.
When people started the revolution, they wanted to change the regime—not the president.
The word was used a lot in the context of the revolution… in the media, in the news. It's kind of a flowery word; it's not street talk.
Like, maybe after the revolution the word regime started to be used by some people when they started to be interested in the regime… when they had an authority or power above the regime, and they could give their opinion about it. This word doesn't appear unless the regime is in danger.
The regime is Hosni Mubarak's regime.
Mubarak left and, "The people took down the regime!" No way. Like, even if it's a little regime, it certainly doesn't go out like that! The idea of a regime is a global system, like, that's all over the world.
The regime is those in power—everyone. There's the Justice Minister, the Foreign Minister, the Interior Minister, the Supply Minister, the Youth Minister, the Minister of such-and-such… That's the regime. That's called the regime. They're the ones who control this country's regime.
I think the regime in Egypt—the President and the Parliament and all these people and phenomenon that appear, the referendums that come out and the people who vote, the Constitution and the whole damn thing—is a complete farce. That's the truth. The regime in Egypt is deeper than that. Of course, no one knows, but we'll find out in the future, like, how Egypt's regime really is.
The regime is the global system that the whole world runs on, not as politics or economics or anything, but as distribution of power. The people we have here are a part of the system. Yeah, they might be a small system for us, but at the end of the day they have to agree with the big system in order to survive.
I don't understand… is the regime those in power, or is the regime what's behind those in power? If the regime is those who are in power, it's a shit regime! An old geezers' regime! But the regime that's behind those in power—the people have nothing to do with it. They play around a bit, get us worked up a bit, frustrate us a bit, and drug us a bit… that's how it goes.
For me, the system or regime doesn't need everything that we do—all this chemistry and all this talking—to get to the point that someone rules the country with a regime. The whole thing isn't really difficult. Why do we think… why do we keep thinking inside our box and inside the circle of our customs and traditions—which we basically don't even enforce—in order to make a regime? For me, a regime is a known system and series of steps. It doesn't need a religious background or a military background or a civilian background as much as it merely needs mutual respect between people and enforcement of the law on the whole collective—no more. We don't have to keep thinking about how we're going to make our regime or write our constitution, while every other country makes laws and rules and everyone goes along with them.




