The resignation: the day that Hosni Mubarak resigned from his presidency. On February 11th, he resigned from power.
From what I've seen, a resignation comes after the people engage in a revolutionary wave against the regime, or against the president who is in power. In it, they demand that he resign from his position in the State.
That's it, people lost their hope. They went out in the streets against him. There are state institutions that started to sell him out, including Tantawi. Omar Suleiman was one of the people who tricked him… who tricked Mubarak. The resignation was inevitable; it happened ultimately in spite of him. Indeed, Mubarak was tricked.
I think the word "resignation" is a word that the president uses to trick the people. Pretty much every president in Egypt has said, "I will resign." The first resignation was Abdel Nasser's. Abdel Nasser never went back on his word, but he went back on his word that time. So, I don't know if he was really going to resign or whether he did that to get people to protest for some reason. No one knows.
They used to say, "Fuck no, don't go!"
The day that Mubarak resigned, he said, "It's me, or it's chaos." Except that the people who wrote Mubarak's speeches are the same ones who write El-Sisi's speeches, and the same ones who ambushed Morsi by writing him really long speeches that took hours to deliver. Those are the people who are sending Egypt to hell. The writer that writes speeches for the President is ruining everything. You never feel like there's anyone who speaks to the people from the heart.
If I'm going to talk about Hosni's resignation, I have to admit that it wasn't… first of all, that it wasn't a resignation. He didn't give the speech; his spokesperson gave it. The other thing is that he chose to turn power over to SCAF. That wasn't one of the demands of the revolution.
The resignation: a huge hoax. The Army made a deal with Mubarak and tricked the people. They said, "Leave, and you will live out your life content and well taken care of. You'll go to prison for a couple of days and pretend to be a sick man. You'll trick the people, these idiotic simpletons; you'll get back out and live your life, and we will take control of the country." So, I mean, the situation was under control.
I don't think that Mubarak should have left that way; he could have left in a better way… a more sophisticated way than that. Not because of him, not because of who he is… I'll tell you again that I come from a home that did not love Mubarak. We were shackled by him. Since I was a little kid, we didn't like Mubarak and we struggled against him, alright? But Mubarak as a president—the President of a nation—with people and stuff, who had been in power for thirty years while the people were silent… He shouldn't have left that way. He should have left in a better way.
He didn't have to resign. He could have stayed another six months.
There were a million people in the Square, really, on the day of the resignation. We heard the speech. We were overjoyed, ecstatic, everything. I said it… I said it to my friends, "If we leave, none of the goals of the revolution will be achieved." The Brotherhood said, "Come on, let's go, we've made a revolution. Congratulations! Congratulations! Let's celebrate the resignation and then come on, let's go home." So we left. We left the Square. We were tricked.
On February 11th, the Muslim Brothers gave all of us أدونا كتف. They started us on the road to fracture. They deceived people; they did the opposite of everything they said from the very start, no exaggeration. From the start, "It's not in our interest for a Muslim Brother to become the President of Egypt." A lot of stuff. They did the opposite of pretty much everything they said. They are the main reason that people today say that January 25th was a conspiracy.
We went out every Friday after the resignation. The Brotherhood controlled things. They formed popular committees to guard the entrances and exits to the Square. They would carry a huge banner and chant, "God overthrew the regime." I said to them, "God overthrew the regime?" One of them said, "Yes, if it were not for our Lord and His will." So I replied, "Certainly God is above everything and He arranges everything, but God has made us the means."




 







