The word retribution basically reminds me of the Qur'an.
For me, retribution is something from religious lessons at school, like: "Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth."
Meaning: when someone kills, they have to die. They have to die the same way they killed.
It's a very simple concept. Then we grew up, and we lived it. We've lost people, and we want to kill those who killed them.
Before the revolution, I never heard this word except in Friday sermons nearby my house. I never heard it from friends or at work—among us, I mean—despite our differences in thought and opinion. I never heard anyone use it in normal conversation.
Before the revolution, it pretty much didn't exist, but it became a popular expression. All the youth of the revolution say it, and all the leaders of the revolutionary movements say it. 
It was also a word that rocked the Square. People chanted, "Justice or retribution for the martyrs who died by treachery."
Retribution… retribution… Port Said.
There should be retribution for that—for the blood of the people who died.
I'm surprised that people still think that way: either black or white. We still don't have that gray area in the middle. Not yet.
It's a stupid term in politics, and even stupider in revolution. I think it's just a term of reference—political reference—and it's stupid for the revolutionaries to adhere to a term like that. It's my opinion that the revolution is about collective consciousness—a consciousness against primitivism—and that's not happening at all.
Retribution is something written in God's book. It's something God said—that anyone who kills should be killed.
I used to think that retribution was justice, but now I don't think the same at all, specifically on the subject of killing. I can't really find a justification for someone to decide to take a life…to kill. Maybe if retribution was far from execution, murder, and those things, I could accept it. But killing is the limit. For me, it's not justice.
But I don't want justice—I want to take it out on them. I want those who killed us to be killed. Actually, I don't want to kill them; I want to kill their children, so they can feel what people felt.
Retribution is a cheap means of modifying a legal concept, of cancelling the judiciary. The word retribution is a cheap means used by Islamic and religious groups to start us on a road that will end with our whole lives dictated by religious discourse. The question of retribution is the question of building the state that the Brotherhood, and others, dream of. 
A long time ago, the State had no law… the Islamic state had no law or whatever, so they used Sharia, and retribution. It's normal for things to develop, and people have to go along. Every era is different.
In our country, there isn't anything called law anyway in order to get vengeance for anyone or get anyone's rights. None at all.
If an officer kills someone—a citizen at the precinct—that's it, there's nothing that can be done. Like what happened with Khaled Said. The officer was found innocent and yeah, nothing happened. There is no retribution; the country runs with no law. They are their own law: politicized judiciary, politicized police, everything running by the corrupt regime. Honestly, there's unfortunately no treason greater than that. They're literally traitors. I mean, seriously, they are traitors. 
Somebody like the Eye Sniper, who was in Mohamed Mahmoud… that's someone you can't get retribution from. Nothing happened. He got three years after he shot those people's eyes; three years after he disabled so many people! I'd probably get three years if I was caught with a joint… maybe I'd even get more.
You can't get retribution from anyone who's got their back covered in this country. I mean, they're protected.
We don't have law, so there's no retribution. Whoever wants something takes it by force. I mean, any retribution here has to be done by force.
There was this woman at a court in Sohag. After the officer who killed her son was found innocent, she pulled out a pistol and shot him in the head, right in the court. What a powerful woman! That's retribution in my opinion; that's the right kind of retribution.
Can I remedy wrong with wrong? The idea that people will get vengeance for people who died… if we lose a thousand and kill a thousand, that means we're gonna lose another thousand, and if we kill another thousand, their people will take vengeance in a coming political stage, and we'll keep taking vengeance on each other…
I don't know… maybe there's another way, instead of taking the life of a human being.
I might be satisfied with purging, أو تقتصي من المنابع, with prosecution in trials—in just trials—with transitional justice in the manner of what happened in Morocco, or like what happened in South Africa after their conflicts and battles—either by pardon or by just trial and reparations.
This country has no justice anyway, so how can there be retribution? Anyone who talks about retribution is totally يتاجر بيه . Forget about it.
 