The shoe we wear in the Army. That big boot, you know.
Everyone's dream when we were kids was to be an officer in the Army, to be someone important who protects the country from people. Like they’d teach us about war, and they’d say, “War is great.” So, we really wished we could wear the boot. Anyone who asked a little kid, “What do you want to be?” — “I want to be an officer, I want to be a soldier, I want... I want... I want.”
Before the Army, I basically didn’t know the meaning of this word. When I went into the Army, us soldiers were joking around with it, with each other. Supposedly, the curse goes, “You soldier, you boot.” 
There’s a law in the Army, like martial law... a military law: if a hand is raised, the ranks are equal. Meaning that if the person facing you is a brigadier-general—see, a brigadier-general—if he puts a hand on me, if he raises his hand to me, the ranks are equal. Meaning I could joke around with my colleague, “You soldier, you boot,” or whatever else, but that’s it. But if someone from outside says, “Bootlicker...” That’s what they say to us as soldiers. I heard it with my own ears, at the checkpoint. We were standing at the checkpoint and a car passed. “Hey, look at that, there are the bootlickers!” meaning the soldiers. Slaves to the higher-ranking officer. Yeah, I listen to my higher-ranking officer’s orders, which are to protect you. If my officer says to me, “Hey soldier, go stand at that checkpoint! Don’t move, except after midnight!” I stand there for twelve hours. To protect you! That’s it. You’re gonna call me a bootlicker? Man, I’m standing here protecting you. Like, I’m protecting my people.
But the problem is that feeling changed after the revolution, especially after January 25th, after SCAF, and after the people who died at Maspero and at the Council of Ministers. And by way of President El-Sisi, the massacre at Raba’a, and after that as well. 
We adore the boot that we couldn’t believe we were seeing. We love to clash with it. For the witness, testimony, and for the slave, the boot.
