To me, revolution has been a dream since I was little.
Before the real revolution, the meaning of revolution was any little thing. Our ceiling was really low. So whenever we were able to do anything, it was a revolution. Go out in the street wearing shorts; open the windows and turn up the radio; close the car doors and dance—it was a revolution. If someone fought with their family to stay out late, they'd say: "What?! Are you some kind of revolutionary?" That was revolution. Why? Because that was our limit. That was as far as we could go. Could anyone dream of more? No.
For me, the word revolution was just something that you read about in books. I never imagined that I would see one, that I'd live in a revolution. It was really, really, really strange. I remember at the beginning I saw it out my window and didn't do anything at all. I just stood there watching from the window.
We heard about revolution. The revolution of Sa'ad Zaghloul. The Oraby Revolution. A word with no meaning. But when it happened, it had a nice meaning. Right when it started, we said wow, we're going to live in a revolution. We're gonna get our rights. If you worked for the government, if you were a worker—if you were anything at all in the world—if you were a beggar, you would get your rights. We found out that rather than rising up and living, we got death right away. We didn't know. We didn't understand… we didn't understand it exactly.
Now, I feel I've finally understood the real meaning of the word. Even the people who were really revolutionary, but had never lived in a revolution, didn't understand it. You understand it well if you've really lived it.
The meaning of revolution is anyone who revolts—anyone who revolts against a situation they don't like or doesn't suit them. They make a revolution to change the reality that they live in, the state in which they live.
You come out against something you think is wrong, from your perspective. It's not important if other people thinks it's wrong. You think it's wrong and you want to go up against it, so you go out in a protest, in a revolution. A revolution has a big number of people, not like a protest. A protest has a few people, but a revolution is like a million man march.
A revolution is a lack of satisfaction with a particular situation and a desire to change it, by expressing an opinion in a loud voice. A revolution can't happen without a congregation of people, a lot of people who express the same desire for change.
It's intervention in the political and social situation. That's what it means. Like, people rise up in a revolution, and intervene in the political and social situation. They get people together and say we want to attack this, we want to oppose that. It's like an opposition. That's what a revolution is.
People were disgusted, they were completely disgusted with the Mubarak regime. They came out in the days of Mubarak—it would be a group of around thirty people and about one hundred and twenty Central Security officers all around them, because they were going out and saying, "We don't want this. We want this to change." Then all the people united together and went out on the January 25th, and that was the real revolution.
A revolution is groups of youth, alright? They see rage, they've got demands, they've got demands that should be implemented. Right, so they think there is injustice in the country. They've lived with thirty years of injustice, and then they see a moment for us to get out on the street and demand our demands. We, as youth, went out and made a revolution. 
People went out without organization, no order or anything. Whatever their number, people went out. They filled Tahrir Square. At first we didn't know if it was a revolution or what; we thought it was just a normal protest. Then the numbers got bigger and bigger. That's where the word revolution came from—because the number got so big.
I got my personal definition of revolution when I was in Alexandria on the sea and I saw the people coming. That was it. The real revolution was on January 28th. That day, there were so many people, that was it.
A revolution is like when people go out to remove a ruler who's a despot, who's been ruling for so many years because he hasn't been serving any of their interests. He hasn't been fulfilling any needs that aren't his personal needs.
The meaning of revolution to me: regime change. Changing the regime and changing everything.
Like, you protest against the regime. You protest something corrupt: a corrupt regime. Against oppression, injustice, whatever. Whatever is repressing your freedom, silencing your voice. In my opinion that's revolution.
Change. Change for the better. If it's change for worse, it's not revolution. I don't know what you call it, but it's something bad for sure.
A revolution should be in everything; it should even be in work. If you work someplace, and you go up against your boss about something, that in itself is revolution.
The word revolution means leaving the familiar, leaving the regular rhythm. An attempt to change reality by force. It's certainly change through protest and sit-ins and strikes, by dismantling in phases, then stopping the dismantling to build and be stable. It happens in stages that may be brief or prolonged. 
It's known that revolution is when people revolt out of rage; they go out to change a regime they think is wrong. The January 25th Revolution rose up to take down everything corrupt in the country, but of course it was only a very short time before everything went back to the way it was before.
Revolution: a word whose meaning we don't understand. The proof of that is that we had a revolution, and we went around and around to return to those who betrayed us in the first place. 
If there's a country that wants to colonize you, I will fight. I will fight without thinking. I won't think. Someone comes to take my country, take my home, I will fight without thinking at all. But this January 25th Revolution, they're fighting the president of their own country. That's something else entirely.
This was a better revolution than the 1952 Revolution. Why? Because the 1952 Revolution, when they called it a coup, they were right. England called it a coup. Yeah, it's a coup. Why? Because that's exactly what they did. But the people, they started January 25th from the bottom, so it's really a revolution. 
I think revolution is people's rage and rejection of an economic system, followed by a rejection of the political system. It's hard for me to say that January 25th was a revolution. I call January 25th a people's movement, but it didn't reach the level of revolution. Because if it was a revolution, we never would have asked for the Army's help or anything, and we would have gotten to the point that we broke into the presidential palace and the properties of the former regime, taken those responsible out of them, and replaced them with the leaders of the revolution.
The people are the ones who strengthen the regime. They are the ones who egg them on; they are the ones who make them stronger. I think we really need a revolution against people, not a revolution against a regime.
They say, "Who's going to lead us? Who will lead us?" No, you made a revolution because you want to lead yourself, not so that someone else will lead you.
We always have a problem in that we need someone to lead. The revolution is without a leader, alright? Definitely a revolution is without a leader… everyone for themselves, following with their eyes upon their goal. It's a fraternity. People do it for hunger and people do it because of harassment, people do it for materialism and people for politics, and people… Like, I might say that in this revolution there are people who don't want Hosni Mubarak to be the president, they want to be the president themselves. Maybe El-Sisi started the revolution. Do I know? Do I? Maybe there was a political greed, maybe America… like, as they say, foreign hands. God knows! Do I know? Do I know who?
There are people who say, "A hunger revolution." From where I stand, it should be a dignity revolution, not a hunger revolution. A revolution against police who abuse someone, or curse someone, police who arrest someone and beat them, torture a girl, or violate the conditions of the people. All of this is part of human dignity and humanity. But that also died because of the regime, because the regime killed people. They even killed their feeling of dignity and humanity; they killed it completely.
In my opinion the word revolution is that in my life no one gets me to participate in anything wrong; everything in it is right. I will revolt against myself even if I am wrong; I will revolt against myself before I revolt against anyone else. The revolution is on yourself before it's on any nonsense.
Now when we say that we are going out in a huge group, it's a huge group like one hundred thousand people, not five or ten people in the street. So the word gots its meaning; it got its weight. We learned that when we say revolution, when we say, "Let's do this. Let's get together, we're going to protest," it will be a revolution. The people… the government understands that we the people are not kidding around.
There's a famous situation when Anwar Sadat was at Camp David with his foreign ministers, his political consultants and others. They say to him, "Sir, the Accords…" The foreign minister says, "Sir, the core of the agreement is being shaped, but I want to impress upon your excellency that you are before the possession of Sinai and not sovereignty over Sinai." So President Sadat gets up, pounds his fist on the table and says, "What are you saying! Aren't I going to take over the land anyway?!" They say, "Sir, are you going to possess the land or have sovereignty over it?" — "No, no, no! I don't want all this intellectual talk! I've got the land, and I'm going to put my flag on it." Then comes the day when we discover that it's merely possession, not sovereignty. We are like that. We deal with the ideas of our intellectuals, our teachers and our thinkers, we deal with them so that we don't ruin the beauty and splendor of the moment.
So I, in my opinion, see that we are very often met with certain vocabulary and we are satisfied with it. We build on it and we hold on to it, only because we don't want to spoil the moment. So January 25th is a revolution. June 30th is a revolution. Why? Why is it like that? Because if we stop using the term and instead use the technical term, we find out that we're spoiling the beauty of the moment for Egyptians who went out in the streets. We destroy the integrity of the brilliant result: the downfall of the regime, the downfall of Mubarak, and the downfall of Mohamed Morsi.
I think that the word revolution can happen in a different way, different from the traditional way of going out in the street and starting a revolution like what happened in Egypt and before that in Cuba and all of those revolutions. Politics is a dirty thing anyway. That's my point of view, anyway, that in the end there are no clean politics. Nothing is better than any other thing. It's all dirt upon dirt. Ultimately, I think that I wish we could find another, new way to do revolution… if there is one, you know? Revolution, or change the world in another way.




 