A lot of people call themselves revolutionaries.
Generally speaking, the media reduced it to a certain group of people who, before the revolution, were politically active and politically aware. They would keep an eye on the elections and the political parties, and talk with this or that guy. But they aren't the ones who rose up in a revolution. Revolutionaries are not confined to the idea of activists.  Anyone who goes out in a demonstration thinking, "God damn you sons of bitches," is a revolutionary. Not someone who goes out to demand that so-and-so be in power or not be in power—those are supporters, opposers, panicked, whatever. A revolutionary is someone who goes out with the value of, "God damn you sons of bitches." They go out knowing that they're the hero of the story right now; this is their moment.
Basically, the revolutionary idea is change. There is no revolution that supports—I can't revolt in support or revolt to bring back a former regime.
I have to admit that the revolutionaries are the best thing that has ever happened, because they are the only ones who stuck to their values. They never sold out and they were never traitors. They always kept fixing the country as their goal, and achieving the demands of the revolution. They wanted to get the rights of the martyrs, and see the country develop towards something better. They always have something good as their goal: a better future, good education, good healthcare, humanitarian things. They don't want the country to be bad at all. Those are revolutionaries: the most upstanding people around.
Until now, when the masks began to fall. I can't say of myself that I'm a real or good revolutionary, because after June 30th I don't like to talk a lot about politics. I had three friends: suddenly one of them became a Muslim Brother, another was against the revolutionaries, and another supported El-Sisi. And actually, we got to be friends in the Square; we shared one tent in the Square.
That's it, there are no more revolutionaries. Or, there are revolutionaries but only the ones who keep speaking out. But no matter how loud their voices are, they are still inaudible. People progress, and they do what they can do. The revolutionaries are undercover now, and they haven't progressed. They have no new ideas. They just sit around and complain, that's it. But there will come a day, an auspicious day. For sure… I hope.
There will always be revolutionaries where there is revolution. Forever and always, there will be revolutionaries, because the rebel supports progress. As long as there is a call for progress—whether in their work, in their places of work, in their personal lives, or in the search for new horizons of the future—there will be revolutionaries to achieve progress: "As we began the first creation, we will repeat it."