Security has changed completely. The people sought freedom and now, they seek security. They've forgotten freedom. If you don't have security, you don't have freedom. Security is the basic thing; it's the larger circle. 
I was raised in Abdel Nasser's time, and part of my youth was during Sadat and Mubarak. I was a kid playing in the street; I'd play in the street until around ten at night. My family never said, "Come inside." Today, I walk in the street as an older woman but I'm afraid… afraid for my bag, afraid that someone might attack me. I'm scared for my son, for my children, when they are out late in the street.
Before the revolution, when Mubarak was in control, did you think it was safe or not? No one could sit like we are now saying anything bad about anyone, right? To what extent? To the extent of talking about the government. But we lived well. You'd go out and feel taken care of. You'd feel safe.
When Hosni Mubarak was alive, the country was going the right way. There were no muggings or troubles or anything. But now, since Morsi was in charge and left, you see muggings in broad daylight here. In every town… thuggery in every town. You're walking down the street and you have no idea how; you twist and turn like a crazy person. Man, I'm scared to walk with twenty pounds in my pocket. When I was going home today, thugs came at me… they come out with knives and stuff. That's, like, no big deal for Egyptian people. They just keep beating each other up and stealing from each other, and it all ends up on us.
You see any two guys in the street, family members riding public transportation… if two brothers have different perspectives, one supports so-and-so and the other wants to vote for so-and-so… if they discuss the subject for exactly ten minutes, you find them getting into a  fistfight. Am I right or not? So what if I and my colleague in the Army, who carry loaded guns twenty-four hours a day, what if we discussed a political topic? What are we gonna do to each other? There's no guarantee! We might fight each other. We might shoot each other. Because of that, the Army says, "Don't talk about politics."
What happened is that, as we say, for thirty years a faction of Egyptians were treated unjustly in everything: injustice in education, in health, in not getting their rights. It was like they had a dark cloud hanging over them, and they were suffocating. Suddenly, they came out; after the revolution, they appeared. For whoever hasn't gotten an opportunity, when they get an opportunity to get their revenge on people, they sure are going to pound on them!
Right now, if you don't have security, you won't be able to run anything. No one is going to come and invest where you are. No one is going to open, like, hotels, companies, or investments. If there's no security, no one is going to open any of those things. So right now people have to help security to work. People have to help the police work.
To whoever was saying that we lived in security during Mubarak's time: there was no security.
Security: a word used to trick people. They say, "There's security."
There's never been any security, anywhere in the world. There is no human who lives in security.
For instance, as a woman I know very well that I can't walk in a place where there are no people, because I don't know what a person standing alone in the street might do to me. I won't be able to defend myself. Who's supposed to accomplish something like security? It isn't something we understand here. Because, in the countries where they have something that seems like it, it's not because there are good police or because someone is protecting the street well. The whole community itself is secure. It's not that anyone in particular is taking care of safety and security. 
The first problem is—what do we need to change? Ourselves. To those who go out to protest, to those who go out to curse, to those who go out to curse the government: Are you good? Are you doing good? Have you not done anything wrong?
Security is a state that the people feel, but they will never feel it. Security is when you walk down the street feeling safe. But right now, when any of us walks down the street, we feel afraid that any passing officer might just say, "Show me your ID." If you don't have your ID, "Let's go, buddy."
An officer said to me, because they wanted to do their rounds here on the shore, "Send out a couple of guys with guns so that people feel secure." — I said, "Look, when you do it like that, are people going to feel secure?" — He said, "Yeah, that's what I think." — I said, "No, when I'm moving around and I don't see any soldiers, when I see a calm place, that's when feel secure."
I went to Copenhagen and I entered on my passport, so they could stamp it. I left Copenhagen for Oslo, went all the way to the north of Norway, then went all the way down Sweden and crossed Sweden again to get to Denmark. Then, I returned the car and rode the train from Denmark, and we crossed the border on the train and got out in Germany. We continued on a train to Munich, went to the village, and then to the airport to come back. I got my passport out again at the airport to have it stamped. I took my passport out twice: when I was coming in to have it stamped, and when I was leaving to have it stamped. I stayed in hotels… a hotel in every place. And even when I was renting the car, I didn't take my passport out.
Security has to exist mightily, but it can't be seen. That whole idea has to change.
Anyway, all the thugs in Egypt belong to the police. They know them each individually and they put them to work, all of them for the police. So if there's no security, I doubt that the police can do anything about it.
They don't want us to have security, because as long as there's no security, we'll always need the police. And as long as we're afraid, we'll forever be condemned. They don't want to change. Why? Because we humiliated them during the revolution. So lie back, now. You're not going to مش إنت هنتني… me I might have been a thug to you, but I protected you. Now, I'm going to really show you thugs! You'll see! You're going to come back to me and kiss my boot.
Actually, if there've been a few overindulgences by one, or two, or three individuals, it doesn't mean that all police are bad! No! We have to join hands so that security comes back again. We have to help it; we have to help security come back again.
You don't know the truth. You don't know what's right. You don't know who killed the soldiers last Ramadan. You don't know who killed the soldiers this Ramadan in Farafra. You don't know who. There are people who say that the Army killed them and that they're doing things to make us forget about the whole Gaza thing, to make us forget our demands and forget the revolution, and to make the country feel like it's in a state of terrorism—that there's terrorism. I mean, you don't understand.
All of that is interior security stuff. The Army is responsible for external security, God help them. I mean, I don't think protection of the security state is a small thing. No, it's a basic need. If we go out into the street, we'll find that the majority of people want military rule, or a military person, so they can feel that they can get security. Maybe that's the difference between us and the youth: we've lived through times that were secure. Maybe we lived with corrupt rulers, but I could walk down the street, go to work, and come home. It was possible for me to go out late at night on an errand and come back without feeling anxious. 





