In 1952, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces (SCAF) was the Revolutionary Command Council. Now, it's… they couldn't use that name in this context, so… like, they made it SCAF. They gave it a slightly different look.
At first, we thought that the Army, and SCAF, were saving the revolution and stuff.
At the time of the revolution… like, when the revolution first started, I thought SCAF… I thought that paying homage to SCAF was a good judgment call for us. I thought they didn't assault people the same way the police did.
Everyone at the beginning was like, "Yeah, SCAF! That SCAF is a beautiful thing!" Then we found out after a while that they were no different from Mubarak's regime. They were Mubarak's regime; there was no difference. We found out that tactics of oppression were increasing in the streets, poverty increased, and our legitimate demands for bread, freedom, and human dignity were not being met. We started protesting against SCAF, too.
I liked Sheikh Hazem Salah's statement… Hazem Salah Abu Ismail, God end his captivity. He said that over two hundred years, the Egyptian people have risen up in revolutions and in the end, power has always returned to the military. That's the biggest mistake the people make.
Whoever doesn't have a chief, gets themselves a chief! Am I right or wrong? A lot of people want Egypt to be like Libya. Because Egypt is more important than Libya—Egypt is the Army! So we need someone powerful. The most powerful authorities we have are the judiciary and SCAF. Because of that, SCAF has to take control. It's just for a while, and if they want to continue, they will. Don't forget that when the Field Marshal left he didn't do anything; he didn't harm anyone or do anything. He just took what was his and went on his way. You know what I mean? He wasn't like Morsi, and he wasn't like Bashar, and he wasn't like that idiot in Libya—Qaddafi.
Field Marshal Tantawi went back on his word when he didn't hand over power quickly. God only knows why the whole thing took so long. Then, when the whole Constitution thing started and there were differences between yes and no—the beginning of the schism—there were people who thought the Army did it. They thought SCAF was responsible for the schism.
There are about seven hundred leaders in the Army. They control the country, and they are who we call SCAF. Some of them are inside SCAF, and some of them are outside of it. Those seven hundred leaders are the ones who control the holding companies in Egypt. Supposedly, one hundred and seventy-six billion dollars enter Egypt every year. Those one hundred and seventy-six billion dollars don't come into Egypt; it goes into their pockets and is sent to foreign bank accounts in their names. So, of course they want to keep getting those billions in their pockets, and for that reason they want to stay in control of the country.
SCAF took the country from Mubarak, and sold it to those who knew who how to run Mubarak's regime from the start, all over again.
The period of SCAF rule saw a collusion between Field Marshal Tantawi and, like, Suzanne. Like, they said to Mubarak, "We'll protect the Madam; we won't harm her and we won't put her on trial." That kind of thing, even though Egypt's problems were Suzanne's fault. Maybe the old man was tired at the end, and she wanted to be the wife of the President and the mother of the President. There was a kind of slackening.
The former SCAF gave the country over to the Brotherhood and to the military itself. I wish Tantawi had played it right. But he played it wrong: against the revolutionaries. He preferred to force the Brotherhood on the people. They are the largest conglomerate in the country, and he gave the country to them. Like a little kid who's crying, "I want chocolate! I want chocolate!" so you give them chocolate. After they get the chocolate, they don't open it; they just hold it in their hand. It's just like that.



