Before the revolution, no one knew it.
People were afraid to say, "I'm secular." Like, the seculars who were around, who had the idea of secularism, they were… even the top thinkers, when they went on TV, would be timid about the word. They'd be afraid to be honest about it, so they wouldn't get called infidels. The word secular or seculars meant infidel: vile son of a bitch against religion and against God. It was a curse word.
They think that a secular is someone who wants to come make us like Europe, let gay people get married, and let people run through the streets naked. Like, secular is always synonymous with infidel. After the revolution, it's the same: a secular is an infidel. The elite in Egypt especially distorted the image. Like, they distorted the image of the word secular. 
It's among the spate of misrepresentations that gets applied to anyone in this country with an opinion that's classified as secular, in that they respect everyone's rights and freedoms.
Seculars are those who say, "Use reason to arbitrate everything, and leave religion to the side." They're the ones who use reason for everything, and ignore anything called religion. They leave religion to the mosque or the church. 
You have to differentiate between infidels, seculars, and atheists.
I could read it with two different vowels. If I read it with one vowel, secularism has to do with knowledge; with the other, they are people who don't abide by the nation or any specific nationality, but who refer to science.
Seculars are people who don't want to mix religion with politics. They want the country to be ruled without reference to religion at all, either Islam or Christianity.
Religion has now become nonsense and ignorance, and science mainly prevails across the world.
Seculars are people who try to separate religion from management of the state. They are people who try to strip the state of any religious background, whatever it is.
What you are saying is ridiculous. It's not right! If you leave religion to the mosques and the churches, society will degenerate. Believe me! Believe me! That's what'll happen. You'll find decay and theft; you'll find all sorts of things! You'll harm the country more than it can take; I mean, you'll harm it morally, socially, and educationally. It will be very serious for this country.
Every time you go to a secular state, you find out that, like, every day they discover a disease that has no cure. Like, there are diseases in Japan, or America… diseases with no cure. So that's a challenge… a challenge for whom? For religion, for the men of religion who say, "Don't do these things, or you'll go to hell." Yes, science says, "This might be good," but religion comes after that and says, "It can't go on." Like, there are things written in the holy books that are supported by science. Science came after them.
Anyone who understands the religion of Islam knows that Prophet Muhammad's message was a message of secularism, in that the Prophet was a messenger for all people—the Qur'an says so—and a secular message in that it calls for the use of reason. It's in the whole Qur'an: "Do they not think?" — "Do they not remember?" — "Do they not understand?" Those are all verses in the Qur'an that call for thought and reason.
The word got its justice after the revolution. I mean, finally it got its rights, and it's no longer a curse word. We started talking about the idea of secularism. Men and women say, "I'm secular," — and, "Secularism is the solution." We started to confront the word and deal with it, so that it has become possible that one day we might use it as a ruling political regime.
Like, yeah, some people came to rule with religion and they didn't like it, so that means this country has… it has a secular element!
Secularism is one thing and being against the Brotherhood is another. I mean, not everyone who's against the Brotherhood is secular, and not everyone whose ideas are secular are against the Brotherhood.
It's a translation of a word that was used in the medieval era in Europe, to describe the departure from the rule of the Church. Furthermore, the religion of Islam has nothing to do with a religious state. There is no religious state in Islam. In the medieval era, the concept of the religious state was the rule of priests and monks, the sale of heaven and hell and the instruments of forgiveness. That's not a concept in Islam, and Islam frowns upon it and forbids it.
I spent a long time looking for its meaning, and I found out that the shared opinion throughout everything I read was that seculars are people who live regular human lives… the ones who aren't ascetics. The life of a person who gets married, has a home, gets an education, and who doesn't live as a servant. So, technically, we're all secular. 