Before the revolution, a sheep was something that walked behind its shepherd, on its way to slaughter.
Of course the word existed before the revolution. When we were in college or at school, my friends and I were always introverts, hanging around on the fringes. We had our own opinions about things, and we thought that other people were sheep: people who do things like the people around them, without having any independent opinions or interests. 
After the revolution, we indeed saw the shepherd and we saw the sheep walking behind, barely even using their minds. 
There're always people saying "El-Sisi's sheep," —"The Army's sheep," — or whoever else's sheep.
The Muslim Brotherhood were called sheep. For sure, that was another term that came from the media, or from those who get the advantages—whether felool or whatever. The ones in whose interest it would be to have the Muslim Brotherhood called by that name.
In truth, sheep do walk behind their leader. Sheep is a name for the members of the Brotherhood because they walk behind their supreme guide.
I really hated the word sheep in the protests, when they used to call them sheep. I didn't like disrespect in the protests.
People say to the followers of the Muslim Brotherhood, "You're sheep," and I think that's right. Why? I don't know.
When we went deeper, we found out it's not just some of the Brotherhood who are sheep. There are some Salafis, members of the NDP, and many of the revolution youth. They move as though they aren't thinking, just like someone told them, "Come here. Go do this." They do it without thinking.
Those people came to the surface after the revolution. It became apparent that they're the majority—there are a whole lot of sheep.
Sheep people: you're either completely for someone, or completely against them. No one looks to an idea; they look to a person. There's no such thing as, "I don't care what this guy does in his life, I just see what he says." People don't build their opinions on anything; they build their opinions on idiocy. "Yeah, that guy's daughter wears a bikini." What?! What?!
The Egyptians have become like sheep. They listen to what is told to them on TV, and they move like sheep. 
After June 30th, I swear I found out who the sheep are… and I discovered that they are a huge part of the country. And I found out that they really love clover a whole lot. But really, really… there are still people who don't understand… they don't know… they don't know that God shows you what's right and guides you to Him. Not everyone gets that blessing.
There's a sentence by Ahmed Mourad in one of his novels. Supposedly, God sent Moses to the Pharaohs—not to talk to the people, but to their Pharaohs. That's because in Egypt, you have to talk to the influential people so that the little people get scared.
I don't like to use the term for others. I mean, because we're all, like, really in a state of following.
I'm one of them as well. It's pretty normal to be a sheep. I mean, as long as humans live with their institutions or whatever, they're sheep to a certain degree.




