Before the revolution, it was a really beautiful thing: the place we got back from the Israelis. Like, that was a victory. A victory for us in the modern era.
Every time you hear Sinai, "Sinai's come back to us again!" is the thing that automatically comes to mind. Anyway, it's like it was lost and then decided to come back to us again.
It's the place where there was communication between humans and a higher power, between Moses and God. That's the most powerful thing in Sinai. The government… I suppose the government, the Army, and all those people know what's here. They've just buried it, perhaps only because of international agreements; perhaps because of their personal interests; perhaps because they can't maintain control over it. So, they try to suppress it in any way they can, so that one day they'll be able to control it.
Sinai is zero, just as it was the day we took it back. What are some hotels and resorts, or a few buildings built here and there? That's all just capital funds moving around, something anyone can do. But we have to make some laws so there will be good people there. Good citizens, not corrupt ones.
I think someone with authority once said, "We've forgotten Sinai." Sinai has a really great energy, with awesome possibilities… legendary possibilities. Sinai is a piece of silk. We took it, and we made it into underwear. 
After the revolution, in our minds it's the place with the takfiri groups that we hear about, the place where weapons are brought in, where there are some people who are at work right now on terrorist operations. Every time we look for their sources, we find out that they're basically in that place.
Before the revolution, Sinai was better than now. We had tourism and everything was ok, going well without any issue. Now there's no work, I mean there's no tourism or anything, and nothing is like it was before. That's the difference between before and after the revolution. Everything was better in the days of Mubarak. After the revolution, there's no way to make a living. There's no change, except that the Army has come to Sinai.
Change: the revolution changed everything for us personally; we got our freedom. We're taken care of, not… like, we don't see the paddy wagon creeping around. The paddy wagon used to see you just standing on the street and snatch you, beat you, take you for a week or a month. Maybe no one would know how you were arrested. They'd say, "We found drugs on him," and you were just standing on the street trying to get a ride. Injustice, injustice… there was a lot of injustice, but now we've gotten our freedom after the revolution.
There's no freedom. Freedom and democracy come together, and human rights. There are no good hospitals, no decent education, no services, no public transportation, no clean water. 
Why do you oppress the Bedouins! The Bedouins have a right to everything. Aren't they Egyptian citizens?
The government is being unfair and unjust, because they see the Bedouins as Jews. And the Bedouins aren't doing anything or going anywhere; they're just staying in their place. They are unjust oppressors.
Sinai is actually a huge problem. I don't know if what I'm going to say is right or wrong, but I feel like Sinai has gotten out of the State's control. Look: they say, "There's terrorism there," and other stuff in a similar vein. I don't know… If there's really terrorism there, then it really has gotten out of the State's control. If there's no terrorism, then it's something they use to fill Sinai up with the Army because of Israel and that kind of thing. 
What's going on in Sinai, what they tell you is terrorism, is really the work of Intelligence. What's happening in Sinai right now is a game played by Intelligence and State Security. I don't know… Sixteen soldiers died on the border in Ramadan, and it's well known who assaulted the armored cars in Sinai. It's well known that it's not the Muslim Brothers or the Islamist groups. It's well known that it's the work of Intelligence. It's well known. It's so that the people will sympathize with them, so El-Sisi becomes president, so that the people in the street will hate the Islamists, and so the whole arena gets emptied out for felool.
We think that Sinai is متباعة, Sinai is ماشية بالستر, ماشية بالبركة. The people who die there, the people who work on the border or in Sinai in general, they're… whether they're Army or police, that's who's there… they're the ones who expend the effort. I don't think people here really work; they just pretend to work. It's like if I had two cell phones: I actually use the old phone, but I'm holding the trendy looking one so that people say, "He's so cool," but actually I don't know how to use it. The people in Sinai are working their fingers to the bone; they're the ones who die and they are المتباعين.
I can't say, "Sinai," because Sinai is split into many different parts. If we look at it politically, there's South Sinai and North Sinai. North Sinai is a total mess as a result of being right next to Palestine and Israel. South Sinai is totally different from North Sinai. During the revolution, our role in South Sinai was to protect the area from the problems going on, because we don't want anyone from the North to come and wreck the place. We want to preserve our calm community; we try to preserve the tranquility.
We're worried about our community.
When people from the North come, if they want to do something here, if they want something, we stop them. We say, "No, it's not allowed; you can't come here to our place at all. If you come here respectfully, that's ok, but if you come here with bad intentions, don't come at all." But they still say that everything is all the same; they think that South Sinai isn't ok.
Sinai's inhabitants come from every Egyptian governorate. So you have to make laws for all of them to get along together. Besides, you have to take into account the customs and traditions here. You haven't been able to get it together; security hasn't gotten it together or anything else, because you've failed in education. You haven't educated people well! You haven't taken the Bedouins and put them next to the Sharqawis, next to the Ismailiyawis, at the same desk. You haven't been able to do it. You will never be able to do anything if you can't give equal education, if you haven't enlightened their minds and taught that there is no difference between religions, between classes, between Bedouins and Cairenes, between Sinawi, Ismailiyawi, and Gizawi. Education is what brings people together. Without education, we won't progress; we won't do anything. Forget everything except education.




