SIT-IN
Before I went out to the revolution, I didn’t know what a sit-in was. Still, we went out for the sit-in of the January 25 Revolution. Suddenly, we found ourselves in it, and it’s an awesome word. It was an extraordinary thing that affected anyone who went to it; it was basically the nicest time you could have in your life. In it, there were people standing up for the country, people who wanted the country to be better. There were people putting everything on the line, going out in the freezing cold, where there was nothing... like, sometimes there was no food, or food was really scarce. But one wanted to represent, to go out and chant, to shout at the top of their lungs. I guess you couldn’t do it, but still you believed in something and stood up for it. You endured. When there was beating or shooting, you still endured.
Before January 25, when the really big court decision said, “There is something called a sit-in, and it’s the right of every citizen to participate in one,” it was a really sweet victory.
I’m convinced that the seed of the January 25 Revolution was planted in 2005...with what was called “Get Out.” “Get Out” was a sit-in. It was the beginning of the “Get Out” movement, in the days of the people that I call real nationalists.
Nowadays, a sit-in is people sitting next to each other for a while. Even if those sitting-in have rightful demands, they send some soldiers, or people drive them away with stones, or beat them so that the sit-in ends.
You could also look at the Raba’a sit-in. I went to it for three days to see what it was like. Yeah, I’m different from them in that they support that president and I don’t support him, but people were going out, believing in their goal, wanting that president, and going out to sit-in because of him. They went out, rejecting everything, maybe striking, doing this and that, enduring assault, seeing people dying in front of them, and at the same time keeping on with the sit-in. They rejected the injustice: what they saw, from their perspective, as injustice. The state is supposed to respect that these people have a desire, whatever their affiliation. It’s not important. These are human beings, so it should be that they get respect and that they don’t get beat, shot, insulted, arrested, and murdered. I am against blood.
Except that the sheer number of sit-ins introduced a specter called the collapse of the state, the collapse of the wheel of production, and the collapse of the Egyptian economy. We’ve reached a point where Egypt is seeking aid from states that we never expected. Look now: the Gulf, Gulf countries, Saudi Arabia and the Emirates. I mean, we thank them, but I see that Egypt is bigger than that, bigger than seeking... bigger than taking aid from anybody. I think this word sit-in is what brought us back to the point of economic decline, specifically in the cities: a sit-in at the factory, a sit-in at the station, a sit-in at the General Bureau of the governorate, a sit-in at I-don’t-know-what company in Kom Ombo and whatever company in Aswan, whatever company in Abu Simbel... That’s it, we’ve reached the point where the word sit-in is totally normal; this word sit-in is like we’re drinking water from the tap in the morning.
Me, too: as I see it, sit-ins aren’t right. I damage myself, I damage the interests in front of me, and most of them damage the public roads and turn the world upside down. So, sit-ins: no. I’m not available to do a sit-in. I want to see about my daily bread, I want to work. I want to see my world. The shops that are around sit-ins, they all shut down, get ruined, my daily bread gets ruined, homes get destroyed...it’s not right. You see, if the country, if the president that’s in it is trash, and he steals and ransacks, but I see my work every day and I want God to dignify me with what’s right, and I want to put myself in a good position for my daily bread and my work and all that stuff...I won’t have time to do anything bad. Man, change yourself and change those around you, and when those around you are changed, then go out, do a sit-in, and demand your rights.
