SOCIAL JUSTICE
Social justice was one of the demands of the January 25th Revolution. It was the most important demand for us: that there be justice in everything.
At first, it was a dream… a very beautiful dream. I remember that, like, I chanted it on the 25th and I believed in it… in spite of the people they call capitalists, in spite of that dirty world. Still, I believed in it. I believed it was a lovely word and a word… that the people would be lovely, that no one would envy each other, that no one would bother each other, that no one would bear a grudge against another.
For real, no joke, you feel like there's a common understanding of what social justice is. I don't know if that really exists in other places.
Every class and every faction has a different understanding of it.
For ninety-nine percent of the Egyptian people, social justice is a word you say to mean whatever you want it to mean.  
Social justice is one of the words or concepts that has been most garbled, distorted, and greatly misused in the revolution, on account of the Egyptian revolution.  
We knew it before the revolution. In the simplest sense, the one that's rooted in our culture and our ancient way of life, the word social justice means that the lower classes respect the elite… I won't say that the poor grovel to the rich, but they give them deference. That was the meaning of social justice. 
Basically, the 1952 Revolution rose up to spread social justice throughout Egypt, in order for the state to follow it. The Revolution rose up on the basis that the the king wasn't just; everyone said that there was unfair, unjust treatment. They said that the rich had all the means to, for instance, go to college. Because they had money, they had the means to buy cars, to eat well, and to take taxis, while the public didn't have those means.
Egyptians don't care about banknotes; they don't care about paper. In Egyptian culture, land is heritage, and Egyptians know that the moment that land is sold is the moment of their end. People took note of the amount of land sales before the January 25th Revolution, and it was something they couldn't accept; it hastened the revolution. Egyptians would rather cut off their right arms than sell their land, and therefore it was an extremely stupid act to sell land to wealthy Egyptians, wealthy Arabs, wealthy Palestinians… to the wealthy, and the wealthy, and the wealthy, who return again and again to buy Egyptian land. Those responsible for this trend in the Egyptian region doubled the sense of loss among Egyptians. The regime did it because it had no reference. Egyptians were entitled to a large number of services from the regime. They had to get some, they had to take a piece of the cake, since the elite had taken the lion's share. Thus, the term social justice is a term based on the idea that there is someone who owns the resources and who is obliged to distribute wealth to the inhabitants of the land or the state.
The term social justice was more clear before the January 25th Revolution. Egyptians had a better desire for and pressure towards social justice before January 25th.
I also heard the word social justice in January. It's a dream. Look: its meaning is the secret of life. When God put humans on Earth, He put them there with the concept of social justice for the children and families that He created, for the world, for the prophets and the messengers, and even for the great ones. 
Unfortunately, in order to trick the simple Egyptian citizens, all of the political parties had social justice as part of their platforms—even the liberal ones, the neoliberals, the capitalists, the Muslim Brotherhood, and even the Salafis. They all played with the concept.
The genuine concept of social justice is that you have complete, one hundred percent equality between citizens. Social justice means that every citizen has a right to everything. The adoption of social justice here means dissolving the differences between classes, so that wealth is not concentrated in the hands of one class rather than another.
Justice doesn't mean equality. Justice means that you take your fair share—your fair share of energy, your fair share of effort, your fair share of knowledge. A very simple example is if we take someone tall and someone short, and the both of them want to see what's behind the wall. So, I give the short one a two-meter ladder and I give the tall one a two-meter ladder. Who's going to see? The tall one. Justice doesn't mean equality; justice means symmetry.
Social justice is the fair distribution of wealth. It allows for equality between people, so there is no class conflict, and at the very least everyone gets their rights in life: they are able to get an education, to live, to spend on their children, to get good healthcare. There's no discrimination based on color, appearance, family origin, occupation, or anything… or nationality, even nationality. Every law is dealt with… or every law is justly enforced. Everyone would get their rights and give rights to others. If someone does something wrong they are accountable, and if they do something good they are rewarded.  
Do we have social justice in Egypt today?
It's really easy to answer: no, no, and no.
We don't have any of that here in Egypt.
We don't have any social justice in Egyptian society at all, since Mubarak. For thirty years, it was just him and his cronies; no one else got anything at all.
There will never be social justice where there is a corrupt regime.
In Egypt, the classes are very far apart from each other. There are people who can't eat—they really don't have anything at all, not even a pound—and some people have as much money as an entire country.
Let's have a look at how employment works. Like, I'm a guy who works in a bank, and my boss makes three hundred thousand pounds a month. Now come have a look at how much I make. It's just a small percentage. 
Where will social justice come from when I go to the supermarket to get stuff for two hundred pounds and there's a guy with another cart that is getting stuff for two thousand pounds, and the both of us are coming from the same neighborhood? You can see it right at the cashier; it's no secret.
The middle class is truly disappearing, and after the revolution it's disappearing more. The poor… what we understood as poor people, who couldn't afford to eat meat or chicken or fruit, don't eat anything at all now. And the middle class, who used to eat those things and now eats less than they did before, has become poor. Within their budget, the middle class used to go to the movies at least a couple of times a month. They used to go to the theater and send their kids to private school, maybe even international schools. That was the middle class. Now the middle class can't do those things; they can't go enjoy themselves, they can't eat fruit on a regular basis. The proof that we don't have social justice is that the middle class is struggling… struggling to live. That proves that there is no social justice; it's completely over.
How can you talk to me about social justice when you're raising the prices, when you give to me with your right hand and take with the left? How can you talk to me about social justice?! Do you want to achieve social justice? Enforce it on the whole people.
There are people I know who get annoyed by this word, "No, you are liars, what is social justice? There is no such thing as social justice." They always says that God created us in classes.
They are referring to the verse that says, "And He created you in ranks, and raised some of you in rank above others." So they're saying, "God Himself said that some are of higher rank than others." What God means by this verse is that He created people in ranks of good morals, religiosity, and closeness to God. He didn't say that doctors are more important journalists, nor did He say that someone with money can buy land and rent it to someone else to farm it. 
An officer's son is an officer, and a poor man's son is a poor man. We don't have equal opportunities. We don't get something because we deserve it; we don't get jobs because we deserve them, and other things like that.
Everyone in their companies and organizations appoints their son or their relative or their friend, just because they are in control.
There are really smart students who are prepared to receive a great deal of knowledge, but their financial circumstances prohibit them from continuing their studies. Someone living in the provinces, for instance, who can't afford to go to university in Cairo, who can't afford to study.
Of course, the revival of any state depends on working on health and education. That's the foundation: health and education. Of course those things are complementary. Like, if you have education—education and awareness—it will take you to social justice. Social justice will also take you to education and awareness. The two complement each other.
In order to achieve social justice here, we need a long time. At least we can start to achieve it by giving people who are hungry something to eat and a place to live. People need those things in order to live, so that would be the beginning… at least it should be.
The application of these things is dependent on people's awareness, and on the vanguard. If there's a conscious vanguard, a nationalist vanguard that knows and understands their country's issues and the circumstances in their country… they need to understand the circumstances in their country, and what is needed at this time. 